To understand the US invasion of Vietnam, and contextualize its devastating impact on the country's civilians, this remarkable and deeply moving museum is an essential visit.
Many of the atrocities documented here are already well publicized, but it's rare to visit a museum such as this, where the victims of US military action are given the space to tell their side of the story.
While most of the displays are written from a Vietnamese perspective, much of the disturbing photography of war atrocities come from US sources, including the images of the My Lai massacre, where more than 500 unarmed South Vietnamese civilians were brutally killed by US soldiers.
Even travellers with little interest in the war should not leave the city without visiting.
Its absorbing exhibits give visitors an invaluable insight into a defining chapter in the country’s history – and a deeper understanding of present-day Vietnam as a result.
Allow at least a couple of hours for your visit.
The museum, which was formerly known as the Museum of Chinese and American War Crimes, primarily deals with the American War, but the French-colonial period and conflicts with China are also documented.
US armoured vehicles, artillery pieces, bombs and infantry weapons are on display outside.
One corner of the grounds is devoted to the notorious French and South Vietnamese prisons on Phu Quoc and Con Son islands.
Artefacts include that most iconic of French appliances, the guillotine, and the notoriously inhumane ‘tiger cages’ used to house war prisoners.
The ground floor of the museum is devoted to a collection of posters and photographs showing support for the antiwar movement internationally.
This somewhat upbeat display provides a counterbalance to the horrors upstairs.
Some of the images on show are very upsetting, in particular photos of widespread destruction from US napalm bombs and the horrific toxic effects of Agent Orange on Vietnamese citizens.
Many visitors may need to take a break between exhibits.
The museum also offers the rare chance to see some of the experimental weapons used in the war, which were at one time military secrets, such as the flechette, an artillery shell filled with thousands of tiny darts.
Upstairs, look out for the Requiem Exhibition.
Compiled by legendary war photographer Tim Page, this striking collection documents the work of photographers killed during the course of the conflict, on both sides, and includes works by Larry Burrows and Robert Capa.
Tickets and other practicalitiesTickets to enter the museum are 40,000d for adults, and 20,000d for children aged 6-16.
Children under 6 enter free.
The War Remnants Museum is in the former US Information Service building.
Captions are in Vietnamese and English.
.
Built in 1909 in honour of the supreme Taoist god (the Jade Emperor or King of Heaven, Ngoc Hoang), this is one of the most atmospheric temples inHo Chi Minh City, stuffed with statues of phantasmal divinities and grotesque heroes.
The pungent smoke of incense (huong) fills the air, obscuring the exquisite woodcarvings.
Its roof is encrusted with elaborate tile work, and the temple's statues, depicting characters from both Buddhist and Taoist lore, are made from reinforced papier mâché.
The multifaith nature of the temple is echoed in the shrine's alternative name Phuoc Hai Tu (福海寺; Sea of Blessing Temple), whose message is clearly Buddhist.
Similarly, the Chinese characters (佛光普照; Phat Quang Pho Chieu) in the main temple hall mean 'The light of Buddha shines on all'.
Touring the templeInside the main building are two especially fierce and menacing Taoist figures.
On the right (as you face the altar) is a 4m-high statue of the general who defeated the Green Dragon (depicted underfoot).
On the left is the general who defeated the White Tiger, which is also being stepped on.
Worshippers mass before the ineffable Jade Emperor, who presides – draped in luxurious robes and shrouded in a dense fug of incense smoke – over the main sanctuary.
He is flanked by his guardians, the Four Big Diamonds (Tu Dai Kim Cuong), so named because they are said to be as hard as diamonds.
Out the door on the left-hand side of the Jade Emperor’s chamber is another room.
The semi-enclosed area to the right (as you enter) is presided over by Thanh Hoang, the Chief of Hell; to the left is his red horse.
Other figures here represent the gods who dispense punishments for evil acts and rewards for good deeds.
The room also contains the famous Hall of the Ten Hells, carved wooden panels illustrating the varied torments awaiting evil people in each of the Ten Regions of Hell.
Women queue up at the seated effigy of the City God, who wears a hat inscribed with Chinese characters that announce 'At one glance, money is given'.
In a mesmerising ritual, worshippers first put money into a box, then rub a piece of red paper against his hand before circling it around a candle flame.
On the other side of the wall is a fascinating little room in which the ceramic figures of 12 women, overrun with children and wearing colourful clothes, sit in two rows of six.
Each of the women exemplifies a human characteristic, either good or bad (as in the case of the woman drinking alcohol from a jug).
Each figure represents a year in the 12-year Chinese astrological calendar.
Presiding over the room is Kim Hoa Thanh Mau, the Chief of All Women.
Upstairs is a hall to Quan Am, the Goddess of Mercy, opposite a portrait of Dat Ma, the bearded Indian founder of Zen Buddhism.
Outside, a small pond seethes with turtles, some of which have shells marked with auspicious inscriptions.
Tickets and other practicalitiesThe temple is free to visit, but a number of donation boxes are dotted around the sight.
There is no strict dress code, but, to be respectful, opt for clothing that covers the shoulders and drops below the knee.
The temple tends to get busy most days, so arrive early to avoid the worst of the crowds.
.
Built between 1877 and 1883, Notre Dame Cathedral enlivens the heart of Ho Chi Minh City's government quarter, facing Ð Dong Khoi.
A red-brick, neo-Romanesque church, it has twin bell towers that are both topped with spires and crosses that reach 60m.
This Catholic cathedral, named after the Virgin Mary, was closed for renovation at the time of research, but when it reopens you'll be able to admire its stained-glass windows and interior walls inlaid with devotional tablets.
.
Believed to be the oldest temple in HCMC (1744), Giac Lam is a fantastically atmospheric place set in peaceful, garden-like grounds.
The Chinese characters that constitute the temple's name (覚林寺) mean 'Feel the Woods Temple' and the looming Bodhi tree (a native fig tree, sacred to Buddhists) in the front garden was the gift of a Sri Lankan monk in 1953.
Prayers are held daily from 4am to 5am, 11am to noon, 4pm to 5pm and 7pm to 9pm.
Next to the tree stands a gleaming white statue of compassionate Quan The Am Bo Tat (also known as the Goddess of Mercy) on a lotus blossom, a symbol of purity.
As at many Vietnamese Buddhist temples, aspects of both Taoism and Confucianism can be found here.
For the sick and elderly, the pagoda is a minor pilgrimage sight, as it contains a bronze bell that, when rung, is believed to answer the prayers posted by petitioners.
The main sanctuary lies in the next room, filled with countless gilded figures.
On the dais in the centre of the back row sits the A Di Da Buddha, easily spotted by his colourful halo.
The fat laughing fellow, seated with five children climbing all over him, is Ameda, the Buddha of Enlightenment, Compassion and Wisdom.
About 3km from Cholon, Giac Lam Pagoda is best reached by taxi orxe om(motorbike taxi).
.
Surrounded by royal palm trees, the dissonant 1960s architecture of this landmark government building and the eerie ambience of its deserted halls make it an intriguing spectacle.
The first Communist tanks to arrive in Saigon rumbled here on 30 April 1975 and it’s as if time has stood still since then.
The building is deeply associated with the fall of the city in 1975, yet it's the kitsch detailing and period motifs that steal the show.
It's also known as the Independence Palace.
After crashing through the wrought-iron gates – in a dramatic scene recorded by photojournalists and shown around the world – a soldier ran into the building and up the stairs to unfurl a VC flag from the balcony.
In an ornate reception chamber, General Minh, who had become head of the South Vietnamese state only 43 hours before, waited with his improvised cabinet.
In 1868 a residence was built on this site for the French governor-general of Cochin-China and gradually it expanded to become Norodom Palace.
When the French departed, the palace became home to the South Vietnamese president Ngo Dinh Diem.
So unpopular was Diem that his own air force bombed the palace in 1962 in an unsuccessful attempt to kill him, and most of the colonial-era structure was damaged.
The president ordered a new modernist residence to be built on the same site, this time with a sizeable bomb shelter in the basement.
Work was completed in 1966, but Diem did not get to see his dream house as he was killed by his own troops in 1963.
The new building was named Independence Palace and was home to the succeeding South Vietnamese president, Nguyen Van Thieu, until his hasty departure in 1975.
Designed by Paris-trained Vietnamese architect Ngo Viet Thu, it is an outstanding example of 1960s architecture, with an airy and open atmosphere.
The ground floor is arranged with meeting rooms, while upstairs is a grand set of reception rooms, used for welcoming foreign and national dignitaries.
In the back of the structure are the president’s living quarters; check out the model boats, horse tails and severed elephants’ feet.
The 2nd floor contributes a shagadelic card-playing room, complete with a cheesy round leather banquette, a barrel-shaped bar, hubcap light fixtures and three-legged chairs set around a flared-legged card table.
There’s also a cinema and a rooftop nightclub, complete with helipad: James Bond/Austin Powers – eat your groovy baby heart out.
Perhaps most fascinating of all is the basement with its telecommunications centre, war room and warren of tunnels, where hulking old fans chop the air and ancient radio transmitters sit impassively.
Towards the end are rooms where videos appraise the palace and its history in Vietnamese, English, French, Chinese and Japanese.
The national anthem is played at the end of the tape and you are expected to stand up – it would be rude not to.
The Reunification Palace is open to visitors as long as official receptions or meetings aren’t taking place.
English- and French-speaking guides are on duty during opening hours.
.
A grand neoclassical structure built in 1885 and once known as Gia Long Palace (and later the Revolutionary Museum), HCMC’s city museum is a singularly beautiful and impressive building, telling the story of the city through archaeological artefacts, ceramics, old city maps and displays on the marriage traditions of its various ethnicities.
The struggle for independence is extensively covered, with most of the upper floor devoted to it.
Deep beneath the building is a network of reinforced concrete bunkers and fortified corridors.
The system, branches of which stretch all the way to Reunification Palace, included living areas, a kitchen and a large meeting hall.
In 1963 President Diem and his brother hid here before fleeing toCha Tam Church.
The network is not open to the public because most of the tunnels are flooded.
In the gardens are various pieces of military hardware, including the American-built F-5E jet used by a renegade South Vietnamese pilot to bomb the Presidential Palace (now Reunification Palace) on 8 April 1975.
.
Delightfully fronted by greenery and opening to an interior blaze of red, gold, green and yellow, this is one of the most beautifully ornamented temples in town, dating from 1902.
Of special interest are the elaborate brass ritual ornaments and weapons, and the fine woodcarvings on the altars, walls, columns, hanging lanterns and incense coils.
From the exterior, look out for the ceramic scenes, each containing innumerable small figurines, that decorate the roof.
To the left of the entrance stands a life-size figure of the sacred horse of Quan Cong.
Prior to departing on a journey, people make offerings to the equine figure before stroking its mane and ringing the bell around its neck.
Behind the main altar, with its stone and brass incense braziers, is a statue of Quan Cong, to whom the temple is dedicated; other shrines are dedicated to Ong Bon (the guardian who presides over happiness and wealth) and Nam Ba Ngu Hanh.
.
Cholon’s main market has a great clock tower and a central courtyard with gardens.
Much of the business here is wholesale but it’s popular with tour groups.
The market was originally built by the French in the 1880s; Guangdong-born philanthropist Quach Dam paid for its rebuilding and was commemorated by a statue that is now in theFine Arts Museum.
Very little English is spoken but expect a friendly welcome if you take breakfast or coffee with the market's street-food vendors.
.
The city's landmark French-era post office is a period classic, designed by Marie-Alfred Foulhoux (though often credited to Gustave Eiffel) and built between 1886 and 1891.
Painted on the walls of its grand concourse are fascinating historical maps of South Vietnam, Saigon and Cholon, while a mosaic of Ho Chi Minh takes pride of place at the end of its barrel-vaulted hall.
Note the magnificent tiled floor of the interior and the copious green-painted wrought iron.
.
The inner walls of this sanctuary, famed as the repository of a sacred relic of the Buddha, are adorned with paintings depicting the Buddha’s life.
However, this 1956 building is most notable for its dramatic history.
In August 1963 truckloads of armed men attacked the temple, which had become a centre of opposition to the Diem government.
Today it's again a peaceful Buddhist refuge, with a large seated Buddha statue and a 32m-high seven-tier tower in its complex.
Visitors must wear appropriate clothing (no shorts).
In 1963 the temple was ransacked by soldiers, a raid organised by President Diem's brother, and 400 monks and nuns, including the country’s 80-year-old Buddhist patriarch, were arrested.
This raid and others elsewhere helped solidify opposition to the regime among Buddhists, a crucial factor in the US decision to support the coup against Diem.
The pagoda was also the site of several self-immolations by monks protesting against the Diem regime and the American War.
The etymology of the temple name points to its significance.
The Chinese characters on the front of the temple – 'Sheli Si' (舍利寺; Sheli Temple), pronounced'xa loi chua'in Vietnamese – mean 'Sarira Temple', from the Sanskrit word for 'Buddhist relic'.
Women enter the main hall of Xa Loi Pagoda, which houses a giant golden Sakyamuni (the historical Buddha), by the staircase on the right as you come in the gate; men use the stairs on the left.
Behind the main hall, a further hall contains a painting of Bodhidharma, an Indian monk celebrated as the father of Zen Buddhism.
He stayed at the Shaolin Temple in China, developing the exercises that would become Shaolin Boxing.
He is depicted here carrying a shoe on a stick (the story goes that when Bodhidharma's coffin was opened after his death, it was empty apart from one shoe).
Chanting and meditation classes are held here every Wednesday evening.
A monk preaches every Sunday from 8am to 10am.
On full- and new-moon days, special prayers are held from 7am to 9am and from 7pm to 8pm.
.
Built between 1939 and 1942, this temple is said to be the only pure Taoist temple in Vietnam and is unique for its colourful statues of Taoist disciples.
Features to seek out include the unique 150cm-high statue of Laotse – the supreme philosopher of Taoism and author of theDao De Jing(The Classic of the Way and its Power) – located upstairs.
Laotse's mirror-edged halo is rather surreal, while off to his left are two stone plaques with instructions for Taoist inhalation and exhalation exercises.
A schematic drawing represents the human organs as a scene from rural China.
The diaphragm, agent of inhalation, is at the bottom; the stomach is represented by a peasant ploughing with a water buffalo.
The kidney is marked by four yin and yang symbols, the liver is shown as a grove of trees and the heart is represented by a circle with a peasant standing in it, above which is a constellation.
The tall pagoda represents the throat and the broken rainbow is the mouth.
At the top are mountains and a seated figure that represent the brain and imagination, respectively.
The temple operates a home for several dozen elderly people.
Next door is a free medical clinic also run by the pagoda.
Leave a donation with the monks if you wish.
.
With its airy corridors and verandas, this elegant 1929 colonial-era, yellow-and-white building is stuffed with period details; it is exuberantly tiled throughout and home to some fine (albeit deteriorated) stained glass, as well as one of Saigon's oldest lifts.
Hung from the walls is an impressive selection of art, including thoughtful pieces from the modern period.
As well as contemporary art, much of it (unsurprisingly) inspired by war, the museum displays pieces dating back to the 4th century.
These include elegant Funan-era sculptures of Vishnu, the Buddha and other revered figures (carved in both wood and stone), and Cham art dating from the 7th century to the 14th century.
More statuary is scattered around the grounds and in the central courtyard (accessed from the rear of the building).
There’s a selection of lovely prints for sale (from 150,000d) at the shop.
Building No 2 alongside hosts lesser-known works and stages exhibitions.
The space on the pavement in front of the impressive old Railway Office, up the road between Ɖ Ham Nghi and ƉL Le Loi and facing the roundabout, was used for public executions in the early 1960s.
.
In a land where so many ancient temples have been ‘restored’ in concrete and neon, it’s a joy to discover one that looks its age.
The temple has an atmosphere of scholarly serenity, and its secluded location down an alley near Dam Sen Lake means it is less visited than other temples in nearby Cholon.
It was founded by Hai Tinh Giac Vien in the late 1700s and it is said that Emperor Gia Long, who died in 1819, used to worship here.
Hidden behind a warren of winding lanes, the approach to the pagoda has several impressive tombs on the right – a popular playground for local kids.
The pagoda itself has some 100 lavish carvings of divine beings.
The main sanctuary is on the other side of the wall behind the Hai Tinh Giac Vien statue.
The dais is set behind a fantastic brass incense basin with fierce dragon heads emerging from each side.
The Guardian of the Pagoda is against the wall opposite the dais.
.
Built in 1929, this notable Sino-French museum houses a rewarding collection of artefacts illustrating the evolution of the cultures of Vietnam, from the Bronze Age Dong Son civilisation (which emerged in 2000 BCE) and the Funan civilisation (1st to 6th centuries CE) to the Cham, Khmer and Vietnamese.
Highlights include valuable relics taken from Cambodia’s Angkor Wat and a fine collection of Buddha statues.
There's good English information.
Parts of the museum are being renovated.
There's also a perfectly preserved mummy of a local woman who died in 1869, excavated from Xom Cai in District 5; and some exquisite stylised mother-of-pearl Chinese characters inlaid into panels.
It's located beside the Botanical Gardens.
.
Gracing the intersection of Ð Dong Khoi and ÐL Le Loi, this grand colonial edifice with a sweeping staircase was built in 1897 and  is one of the city's most recognisable buildings.
Officially known as the Municipal Theatre, the Opera House captures the flamboyance of France’s belle époque.
Performances range from ballet and opera to modern dance and musicals.
Check the website for English-language listings and booking information.
A popular event is theAO Show, a one-hour performance combining music, dance and acrobatics.
.
One of the city’s most prominent landmarks is home to the Ho Chi Minh City People’s Committee.
Built between 1901 and 1908, the former Hôtel de Ville decorates the northwestern end of ÐL Nguyen Hue, but unfortunately the ornate interior is not open to the public.
Road access around the thoroughfare still courses with a kinetic river of two-wheeled traffic, especially on weekends.
At the northeastern edge of ÐL Nguyen Hue, adjoining Ð Dong Khoi, construction is ongoing for a central city station for HCMC's new metro system.
.
This elegant 68-storey, 262m-high Carlos Zapata–designed skyscraper dwarfs all around it.
It's reportedly shaped like a lotus bulb, but it also resembles a CD rack with a tambourine shoved into it.
That tambourine is the 49th-floorSaigon Skydeck, its roof functioning as a helipad.
Frankly, given the crowds and cost, the Skydeck is not that great a visitor experience; consider a drink in theEON Heli Baron the 52nd floor or visit the neighbouring Sedona Suites tower instead.
.
This museum is dedicated to celebrating the accomplishments of Vietnamese women.
The first floor is the most accessible to foreign visitors, with excellent signage in English and French, and displays of traditional crafts andao dai, Vietnam’s elegant national dress.
The other two floors feature photos and stories of notable Vietnamese women in history, as well as the role of women during wartime.
Most signage is in Vietnamese.
.
Housed in a splendidly restored French-colonial mansion – a building that was the home of US Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge from 1963 to 1967 – Salon Saigon is a venue for art exhibitions and cultural and musical events.
The spacious downstairs lounge also includes an excellent library with English, French and Vietnamese books on the history and culture of the country.
Check the website for upcoming events and exhibitions.
.
This Fujian temple is dedicated to the Goddess of Seafarers, Thien Hau (Thien Hau Thanh Mau), also known as Ma To.
The four carved stone pillars, wrapped in painted dragons, were fashioned in China and delivered to Vietnam by boat.
The temple – actually a guildhall – becomes extremely active during the Lantern Festival, a Chinese holiday held on the 15th day of the first lunar month (the first full moon of the new lunar year).
Noteworthy murals can be seen either side of the main altar, while impressive ceramic relief scenes decorate the roof.
To the right of Thien Hau is Chua Sinh Nuong Nuong, a Taoist fertility goddess; to the left of Thien Hau is the ever-popular Taoist God of Wealth.
Blending Buddhism into the mix, a figure of Quan Am looks on mercifully, clothed in white and draped with a pearl necklace.
Note the upright fan in the main hall, used for dispelling calamity.
.
A lovely piece of traditional architecture in itself, this absorbing and very well-stocked museum with over a dozen exhibition rooms affords fascinating insights into local medical practices, which are heavily influenced by China.
While you're here, catch the short film about Vietnamese medicine,A Century of Health Care Experiences,and be sure to delve into the world of East Asian potions and remedies through the ages.
Don't miss the Cham tower at the top, equipped with a fertility symbol.
.
HCMC's best contemporary art space is in District 2 on the east side of the Saigon River.
Interesting exhibitions and showcases of local artists are partnered with talks and there's a lively program of events.
In the compound is a Thai restaurant operating from a shipping container enlivened with colourful street art.
Check the website for upcoming exhibitions.
You can reach District 2 by the new waterbus service from the city centre.
.
This inspiring, independent, nonprofit gallery was founded by artists, giving other local artists the opportunity to display and develop their intriguing work.
There's an excellent open-resource reading room with a great selection of contemporary art books.
The gallery tends to shift location quite regularly, so check their website for updates.
.
The only surviving structure from the original Norodom Palace (which was bombed in 1962 and replaced with today's Reunification Palace) is this impressive French-colonial-era gatehouse.
Good-quality art history exhibitions are held here; the last ticket is issued at 4.
30pm.
.
Built around the turn of the 19th century, this decaying light-caramel-painted church exudes a sleepy, tropical feel.
A pew in the church is marked with a small plaque identifying the spot where President Ngo Dinh Diem was seized after taking refuge here with his brother Ngo Dinh Nhu on 2 November 1963, after fleeing the Presidential Palace.
When their efforts to contact loyal military officers (of whom there were almost none) failed, Diem and Nhu agreed to surrender unconditionally and revealed where they were hiding.
The coup leaders sent an M-113 armoured personnel carrier to the church and the two were taken into custody.
However, before the vehicle reached central Saigon the soldiers had killed Diem and Nhu by shooting them at point-blank range and then repeatedly stabbing their bodies.
When news of the deaths was broadcast on radio, Saigon exploded with jubilation.
Portraits of the two were torn up and political prisoners were set free.
The city’s nightclubs, which had closed because of the Ngos’ conservative Catholic beliefs, were reopened.
Three weeks later the US president, John F Kennedy, was assassinated.
As his administration had supported the coup against Diem, some conspiracy theorists speculated that Diem’s family orchestrated Kennedy’s death in retaliation.
The mint-green and white church interior is decorated with images of the stations of the cross, while holy water is dispensed from huge clam shells.
The statue in the tower is of François Xavier Tam Assou (1855–1934), a Chinese-born vicar apostolic (delegate of the pope) of Saigon.
Today the church has a congregation of around 3000 ethnic Vietnamese and 2000 ethnic Chinese.
Masses are held daily.
.
Dedicated to Marshal Le Van Duyet (1763–1831), this shrine is also his burial place, alongside that of his wife.
The marshal was a South Vietnamese general and viceroy who helped defeat the Tay Son Rebellion and reunify Vietnam.
Among the items on display are a portrait of Le Van Duyet, personal effects including European-style crystal goblets, two life-size horse statues and a stuffed, mounted tiger.
The temple is reached by heading north from Da Kao on Ð Dinh Tien Hoang.
When the Nguyen dynasty came to power in 1802, he was elevated by Emperor Gia Long to the rank of marshal.
Le Van Duyet fell out of favour with Gia Long’s successor, Minh Mang, who tried him posthumously and desecrated his grave.
Emperor Thieu Tri, who succeeded Minh Mang, restored the tomb, thus fulfilling a prophecy of its destruction and restoration.
Le Van Duyet was considered a national hero in the South before 1975 but is disliked by the Communists because of his involvement in the expansion of French influence.
During celebrations of Tet and on the 30th day of the seventh lunar month (the anniversary of Le Van Duyet’s death), the tomb throngs with pilgrims.
The caged birds for sale in and around the grounds are bought by pilgrims and freed to earn merit.
The unfortunate creatures are often recaptured (and liberated again).
.
Nicknamed the ‘Dragon House’ (Nha Rong), this former customs house was built by the French authorities in 1863.
The museum houses many of Ho Chi Minh’s personal effects, including some of his clothing, his sandals and spectacles.
Information is available in English.
It's on the waterfront, just across Ben Nghe Channel from District 1; reach it on foot by heading south along the Saigon River then over the bridge.
Otherwise, it covers the story of the man born Nguyen Tat Thanh – from his childhood to his political awakening, his role in booting out the French and leading North Vietnam, and his death in 1969 – mainly through photographs.
The link between Ho Chi Minh and the museum building is tenuous: 21-year-old Ho, having signed on as a stoker and galley boy on a French freighter, left Vietnam from here in 1911 and began 30 years of exile in France, the Soviet Union, the UK, China and elsewhere.
.
This gorgeous 19th-century temple is dedicated to the goddess Thien Hau, and always attracts a mix of worshippers and visitors, who mingle beneath the large coils of incense suspended overhead.
It is believed that Thien Hau can travel over the oceans on a mat and ride the clouds to save people in trouble on the high seas.
There are intricate ceramic friezes above the roof line of the interior courtyard, while the protectors of the pagoda are said to be two land turtles that live here.
Near the large braziers stand two miniature wooden structures in which a small figure of Thien Hau is paraded around nearby streets on the 23rd day of the third lunar month.
On the main dais are three figures of Thien Hau, one behind the other, all flanked by two servants or guardians.
To the right is a scale-model boat and on the far right is the Goddess Long Mau, Protector of Mothers and Newborns.
.
Only a small number of Hindus live in HCMC, but this colourful slice of southern India is also considered sacred by many ethnic Vietnamese and Chinese.
Reputed to have miraculous powers, the temple was built at the end of the 19th century and dedicated to the Hindu goddess Mariamman.
Remove your shoes and ignore any demands to buy joss sticks and jasmine.
The lion to the left of the entrance used to be carried around the city in a street procession every autumn.
In the shrine in the middle of the temple is Mariamman, flanked by her guardians Maduraiveeran (to her left) and Pechiamman (to her right).
In front of the Mariamman figure are two linga (stylised phalluses that represent the Hindu god Shiva).
Favourite offerings placed nearby include joss sticks, jasmine, lilies and gladioli.
.
One of the city's most attractive green spaces is 10-hectare Tao Dan Park, its bench-lined walks shaded with avenues of towering tropical trees, including flame trees and huge Sao Den and So Khi trees.
It’s fascinating to visit in the early morning and late afternoon when thousands of locals exercise.
The city’s bird lovers (mainly elderly gentlemen) also flock here, cages in hand, to what is universally known as the bird cafe.
The park is split down the middle by Ð Truong Dinh.
To the northeast of Ð Truong Dinh is a small contemporary sculpture garden and the old Cercle Sportif, an elite sporting club during the French-colonial period and now the Labour Culture Palace with tennis courts, a colonnaded art-deco swimming pool and a clubhouse.
.
A humble noodle-soup restaurant may seem an unusual attraction, but there's more to Pho Binh than meets the eye.
This was the secret headquarters of the Viet Cong (Vietnamese Communists; VC) in Saigon and from here they planned their attacks on the US embassy and other Saigon targets during the Tet Offensive of 1968.
One wonders how many US soldiers ate here, completely unaware.
After breakfast or lunch, don't forget to head upstairs for interesting photographs and a mini-museum.
.
Founded in 1946, this Theravada Buddhist pagoda serves the Khmer community in HCMC.
The peaceful grounds include living quarters for about 30 monks, a library and a Pali school.
The main shrine has 14 Buddha statues and the shrine ceiling and walls are covered in vivid paintings of scenes from the life of the Buddha.
Worshippers are most plentiful on weekends and Khmer holidays.
The main entrance is on Đ Hoang Sa.
.
Built by South Indian Muslims in 1935 on the site of an earlier mosque, lime-green Saigon Central Mosque is an immaculately clean and well-tended island of calm in the bustling Dong Khoi area.
In front of the sparkling white and blue structure, with its four decorative minarets, is a pool for the ritual ablutions required by Islamic law before prayers.
Take off your shoes before entering the building.
.
This small patriotic museum is dedicated to Ton Duc Thang, Ho Chi Minh’s successor as president of Vietnam.
Born in 1888 in Long Xuyen in the Mekong Delta region, he died in office in 1980.
Photos and exhibits celebrate his role in the Vietnamese Revolution, enhanced by some fascinating displays on French colonial brutality.
.
Originally built by the French and destroyed three times, this 19th-century house of worship is one of the city's largest churches, with good views from the belfry (a steep climb).
The church is on the eastern fringe of District 5, between ÐL Tran Hung Dao and Ð Nguyen Trai.
.
Built between 1802 and 1820 on the site of structures from the Funan period, dating back at least to the early centuries of Christianity, this Buddhist temple is extremely rich in gilded, painted and beautifully fashioned bronze, wood, ceramic and beaten-copper statuary.
Themain dais, with its many levels, is dominated by a large gilded A Di Da Buddha (the Buddha of Infinite Light; Amitābha).
The main entrances are locked most of the time, but the side entrance is open during prayer times.
Once upon a time, it was decided to move Phung Son Pagoda to a different site.
The pagoda’s ritual objects – bells, drums, statues – were loaded onto the back of a white elephant that slipped under the great weight, sending all the precious objects tumbling into a nearby pond.
This event was interpreted as an omen that the pagoda should remain in its original location.
Everything was recovered but the bell, which, until about a century ago, locals insist could be heard ringing whenever there was a full or new moon.
.
Saigon’s District 7 is a sleek, fashionable and well-designed retreat for the wealthy within the fringes of the city.
Businesspeople, both expats and the local nouveau riche, have embraced this planned neighbourhood of wide streets, fancy shops and manicured parks.
A centrepiece is theCrescent, a glitzy promenade of eating and upscale shopping along a scooped-out section of canal.
After dark, the 700m-long pedestrian-onlyStarlight Bridgeis a colourful attraction.
The expansiveSC Vivo Cityshopping centre is also located here.
It’s well worth visiting Saigon South for a stroll and a look around.
If you’re a fitness freak, it’s one of the less petrol-fumed places for a jog.
Plenty of big-name city restaurants and chains have colonised the area.
The Crescent is 7km south of Pham Ngu Lao; it should only take 15 minutes by cab (around 150,000d), outside of peak times.
.
One of Cholon’s most active and colourful temples, this shrine was founded in the early 19th century.
It’s named after the Goddess of Mercy, whose full name is Quan The Am Bo Tat, literally 'the Bodhisattva Who Listens to the Cries of the World' (觀世音菩萨 in Chinese characters), in reflection of her compassionate mission.
The goddess's name is usually shortened to Quan Am (she is also worshipped in China, Korea and Japan) and her statue lies hidden behind a remarkably ornate exterior.
In Tibet, where she is also widely worshipped, the goddess – who was once male – finds earthly form in the Dalai Lama.
Fantastic ceramic scenes decorate the roof, depicting figures from traditional Chinese plays and stories.
Other unique features of this temple are the gold-and-lacquer panels of the entrance doors.
.
Noteworthy for its gilded woodwork, this temple has a large carved wooden boat hanging over its entrance and inside, to the left of the doorway, an enormous representation of Quan Cong’s red horse with its groom.
The temple is more accurately a guildhall (Hoi Quan), built in the early 19th century by Chinese from Yian (Nghia An) in China's Guangdong province.
Quan Cong – also called Quan De or Quan Vu, a deified Chinese general from the Three Kingdoms Period (184–280) – occupies a position in a glass case behind the main altar, with his assistants flanking him on both sides.
Nghia An Hoi Quan lets its hair down on the 14th day of the first lunar month when various dances are staged in front of the temple.
.
Retaining much of its original rich ornamentation, this 19th-century temple – a guildhall named after Sanshan (Three Mountains) in China's seaboard Fujian province – is dedicated to Me Sanh, the Goddess of Fertility, entreated by local women praying for children.
Thien Hau – the Goddess of Seafarers – is also revered within the main shrine.
Among the striking figures is Quan Cong with his long black beard, to the right of the covered courtyard.
Flanking him are two guardians, the Military Mandarin Chau Xuong on the left and the Administrative Mandarin Quan Binh on the right.
Next to Chau Xuong is Quan Cong’s sacred red horse.
.
This atmospheric temple is crammed with gilded carvings, smoking incense and the constant hubbub of kids from the large school next door.
Built by Chinese immigrants from Fujian province, it’s dedicated to Ong Bon, the guardian who presides over happiness and wealth, and who is seated in a gilded cabinet sparkling with LED lights, an intricately carved and gilded wooden altar before him.
Other shrines are dedicated to Thien Hau, Quan Am, the Jade Emperor and even the Monkey King.
Along the walls of the chamber are murals of five tigers (to the left) and two dragons (to the right).
.
The ground floor of this innocuous-looking building on Ly Tu Trong is currently occupied by the Vietnam National Chemical Group.
Step across the road to outside the Vincom Center to look up at the roof and you will see a structure (housing the lift shaft) that served as a temporary landing pad for a US helicopter evacuating personnel the day before the fall of Saigon, an image immortalised by Dutch photographer Hubert Van Es.
The photograph is commonly misunderstood to depict US citizens leaving the roof of the US embassy, but this building did house CIA staff.
.
The largest Cao Dai temple in HCMC, this fabulously colourful three-storey structure celebrates Vietnam’s home-grown religion of Cao Daism.
Use separate stairs for men and women and ascend to the 2nd-floor main hall.
Notice the pantheon of saints above the main altar, which includes both Eastern and Western figures as well as the symbolic Left Eye of God.
Head up the stairs to the viewing platform at the back (where the ceremonial drums are located) for a wider view of the colourful main hall.
.
This peaceful memorial park is dedicated to Thich Quang Duc, the Buddhist monk who self-immolated in protest at this intersection not far from the Presidential Palace (today's Reunification Palace) in 1963.
The memorial was inaugurated in 2010, displaying Thich Quang Duc wreathed in flames before a bas-relief.
Thich Quang Duc has been elevated to the status of a Bo Tat on the memorial, which means a Boddhisattva (an enlightened person who forgoes Nirvana in order to save others).
.
A short distance from the History Museum, this small collection is devoted to Ho Chi Minh’s campaign to liberate the south.
Interior exhibits are of minor interest but some US, Chinese and Soviet war material is on display outdoors, including a South Vietnamese Air Force Cessna A-37 and a US-built F-5E Tiger with the 20mm nose gun still loaded.
The tank on display is one of the tanks that broke into the grounds of Reunification Palace on 30 April 1975.
.
The clean lines and minimal ornamentation of this mosque contrast starkly with nearby Chinese and Vietnamese Buddhist temples.
Note the pool for ritual ablutions in the courtyard and the tiled mihrab (niche) in the wall of the prayer hall, indicating the direction of Mecca.
This mosque was built by Tamil Muslims in 1935 but since 1975 it has served the Malaysian and Indonesian Muslim communities.
.
While you’re roaming the area, stroll over to the strip of traditional herb shops between Ð Luong Nhu Hoc and Ð Trieu Quang Phuc for an olfactory experience you won’t soon forget.
The streets here are filled with amazing sights, sounds and rich herbal aromas.
.
Skyview is a viewing platform atop the tallest structure in Southeast Asia, a 461m behemoth located 4km north of the centre.
There are certainly astonishing views over the Saigon River but admission is very steep.
.
A glitzy promenade of eating and shopping along a scooped-out section of canal in Saigon's upmarket District 7.
.
One of the first projects undertaken by the French after establishing Cochin-China as a colony was founding these fantastic, lush gardens.
Once one of the finest such gardens in Asia, they’re very agreeable for strolling beneath giant tropical trees.
Skip the miserable zoo though.
.
This compact tree-studded square facing the Saigon River features a statue of the 13th-century Vietnamese general, Tran Hung Dao.
.
Don’t be misled by the name: most of the musicians are fully plugged in and dangerous when they take to the intimate stage of the city’s leading live-music venue.
And judging by the numbers that pack in, the local crowd just can’t get enough.
It's at the end of the alley by the upended VW Beetle.
.
This live-music venue hosts anything from funk rock to metal, acoustic to indie, kicking off at around 9pm nightly.
Check Facebook for what's on.
.
This bar sees some great acts for the roof-lifting live music that takes to the floor nightly at 9.
30pm.
Seats are out the front for people-watching along Bui Vien and multiple sports TVs provide further entertainment within.
.
This tourist-oriented showcase of Vietnamese music, dance and flying acrobats is held in the spectacular, recently renovated Opera House, a French-colonial structure dating from 1897.
.
Within theHistory Museum, this small theatre has performances at 9am, 10am, 11am, 2pm, 3pm and 4pm, lasting about 20 minutes.
.
The landmark French-era Opera House is home to the HCMC Ballet and the Ballet & Symphony Orchestra (www.
hbso.
org.
vn), and hosts performances by visiting artists.
.
Performances of both traditional Vietnamese and Western classical music are held here.
Check the English-language section of the website to see what's scheduled.
.
Located on top of the Liberty Central Saigon Citypoint hotel, this centrally-located complex has five compact auditoriums.
.
Saigon's main water-puppet venue, with shows starting at 6.
30pm and 8.
30pm and lasting about 50 minutes.
.
Three screens here show films in their original language with Vietnamese subtitles.
.
One of the best cinemas in town, with Hollywood blockbusters and local hits.
.
Love-it-or-loathe-it, thisyeeha-style Wild West–themed Pham Ngu Lao bar has staff kitted out in boots, denim and cowboy hats with roof-raising rock classics from the resident Filipino band.
.
Live bands or DJs every Friday and Saturday night.
.
In a relatively quiet street lined with tall, decades-old trees, Fusion Suites Saigon offers spacious rooms decked out in warm natural wood and enlivened with monochrome images of Vietnamese life.
Rainforest showers in the bathrooms, an excellent rooftop restaurant, and a modern ground-floor cafe and juice bar are all good reasons to make this your Saigon base.
Spa and wellness services are also available, but there's no swimming pool.
Ask for a room on the higher floors as the primary school across the road can get pretty lively.
.
Set in verdant gardens on the banks of the Saigon River, this hotel is a uniquely peaceful retreat from the energy of the city.
Eight rooms – some riverside – blend modern design with handmade furniture, beds with luxe linen, wooden daybeds and expansive windows.
There's all-day dining, with fine Western and local cuisine available.
It's in District 2, which has ample restaurants and bars but is around a 20-minute taxi ride from the city centre.
.
Very popular, this hip hotel is just a short stroll from the riverside and good shopping along Ð Dong Khoi.
Decor combines retro Indochinese style with a dash of 1930s art-deco influence.
The quirky exterior is enlivened by a living wall of tropical shrubbery.
There's a compact rooftop lap pool, and Bar Bleu, on the 14th floor, has extensive city views.
.
Expect a warm welcome from the well-trained staff at this attractive new hotel.
Rooms are light, airy and presented with white furniture and style.
It's located in an interesting district that's fast becoming one of HCMC's most fashionable.
Laundry is free for guests, but there's no lift.
There are other Mimosa branches nearby.
.
Classy Ma Maison is halfway between the airport and the city centre, and partly in the French countryside, decor-wise.
Wooden shutters soften the exterior of the modern, medium-rise block, while in the rooms, painted French-provincial-style furniture and first-rate bathrooms add a touch of panache.
.
Down a quiet residential lane a shortish walk from Pham Ngu Lao and Ben Thanh Market, Nguyen Shack's first city opening incorporates a rustic look, with bamboo furniture and ample greenery, spotless and spacious rooms (some sleeping four), and a leafy, shared downstairs area.
Breakfast and water refills are complimentary.
.
This recently renovated luxury hotel is one of HCMC's very best.
A prime location opposite the Opera House combines with exemplary service, fastidiously attired staff and lavishly appointed rooms.
Relaxation opportunities include an inviting pool and the acclaimed Xuan Spa.
Highly regarded (yet affordable) restaurants include Opera, for Italian, andSquare One, serving Vietnamese and international fare.
.
In a District 2 garden location with river views, this French-inspired boutique hotel is one of HCMC's most relaxing places to stay.
Very romantic rooms and suites are filled with heritage Indochinese style and contemporary Vietnamese art, and the property's Song Vie bistro has an absolute riverside location.
The spa is also very well regarded.
A free minibus shuttle – around 30 minutes – to central HCMC is available.
.
Look beyond the overblown lobby to attractive corridors and lovingly presented, light, bright rooms with a slight deco feel.
Standard rooms are actually more tastefully decorated than the executive standard rooms, while river-view standard rooms are the same price as city-view rooms.
Visible from the lobby is Saigon’s most beautiful resort-style pool.
Weekend brunch is popular with Saigon expats.
.
One of the first luxury hotels to reopen its doors in postwar Saigon, the five-star Caravelle remains a classic operation.
Rooms in the modern 24-floor block are quietly elegant; the priciest rooms and suites are in the historic ‘signature’ wing.
The rooftopSaigon Saigon Baris a spectacular cocktail spot.
.
New in 2019, this fine luxury choice has a whiff of colonial glamour, with French Indochinese design touches, dark-wood furniture and sumptuous furnishings.
Options include spacious rooms, suites and serviced apartments.
There's a fine pool, a gym (open 24 hours) and a spa.
It's around the corner from the Reunification Palace in District 3.
.
Boutique stylings on a budget come to this well-located pocket of HCMC.
The modern yellow hues make spaces feel fresh and clean.
Regular rooms are large but the tiniest 'fun' rooms barely fit a double bed and are only a good fit for solo travellers.
.
.
or a svelte couple.
Nice touches include free water coolers and safes and modern bathrooms.
.
Recently rebranded, this lively place remains a good choice if you want to socialise and be in the heart of things.
The building is a sprawling, multistorey affair offering good-value dorms (with eight to 12 beds) and spacious private rooms.
It has a rooftop bar and offers lots of fun nights: quizzes, games and even a 'shit shirt' evening!.
One of the city's premier addresses, the Intercontintental is modern and tasteful without falling into generic blandness.
Rooms have a dash of design class, including Eames-style chairs and sculpted freestanding baths, and many enjoy supreme views.
A neighbouring tower of apartment-style residences caters to longer stays.
.
Part guesthouse and part boutique hotel, Town House 50 offers stylish accommodation down a quiet laneway on a street with good restaurants and cafes.
All dorms and rooms are nonsmoking, and the decor is clean and modern.
Rates include a cooked breakfast, and the team at reception have loads of local information on offer.
.
Refurbished in a cool and classy mix of soothing neutral colours and natural wood, Liberty's Saigon Greenview is one of Pham Ngu Lao's better accommodation options.
Rooms at the front have views of the 23/9 Park on the northern edge of Saigon's backpacker district, though they do suffer a degree of traffic noise.
.
This small hostel is run by a friendly team and has an enviable location in an upmarket corner of District 1 near parkland and the Reunification Palace.
Dorm beds all have reading lights and privacy curtains, and all accommodation is air-conditioned.
There's a guests' kitchen and breakfast is included.
.
The location is a bit stranded for sightseers, so you'll be taking taxis to the centre, but this is reflected in the rates, which are fine value given the quality of rooms and facilities.
Expect faultless service, an obsessive attention to detail and some of the best Japanese food in town.
.
Liberty is a Vietnamese hotel brand with a reputation for value and service.
Rooms feature chic decor and spacious bathrooms, and relaxation options include a rooftop pool with views to the Saigon River, and an excellent spa.
Some of the city's best eating and drinking options are nearby.
.
Offering good value for pricey District 2, this place is a good choice for those who favour a peaceful base.
There's attractive, spacious accommodation and a fitness centre, while D2's many bars, cafes and restaurants are on your doorstep.
Weekly and monthly rates are available.
.
Fronted by bamboo fronds, and within reach of both Dong Khoi and Pham Ngu Lao but far enough away to escape the tourist buzz, this friendly and quiet guesthouse is excellent.
It’s down a quiet cul-de-sac, offering a glimpse into local urban life.
Cheaper rooms have no window.
.
Located in a quiet cafe-lined street a short walk from the bustle of Pham Ngu Lao, Town House 23 is a modern and well-designed combination of hostel and guesthouse.
The decor is particularly stylish and the team at reception is very helpful.
Not all rooms have windows.
.
Le Méridien's sleek contemporary design and stellar facilities (including a pool, spa, and five different bars, cafes and restaurants) make it a fine choice.
Many rooms have excellent river views, and the dining scene on Ð Ngo Van Nam is nearby.
.
Lily's has a warm and welcoming ambience courtesy of its hip, modern decor.
Located in a lane just off bustling Ð Bui Vien, it easily bridges the gap between hostel and boutique guesthouse.
Some private rooms have a flat-screen TV and minibar.
.
Located at the northern end of Ben Thanh Market, this hotel is perfect for those on a retail mission, and there are some superb restaurants within walking range too.
Rooms are smallish but neat and well-appointed, and staff are eager to please.
.
A step above most PNL options, figuratively and literally (with thousand-yard stairs), Diep Anh’s tall and narrow shape makes for light and airy upper rooms.
Clean, safe and secure, this is very welcoming guesthouse run by a hands-on couple.
.
Very conveniently located, the Adora Art is steps from the Ben Thanh Market and a stroll from Tao Dan Park.
Rooms are presented beautifully, with plush furnishings, and the rooftop pool enjoys panoramic views of the city.
.
A well-run family-owned guesthouse where you can opt for front rooms with ace views, or smaller, quieter and cheaper rear options; all en suites are small and functional.
There are seven floors, with no lift, however.
.
Friendly guesthouse located in a quiet lane in an emerging area of town – it's walking distance from Pham Ngu Lao and Dong Khoi.
Dorms have decent air-con, the breakfast is good and there's a rooftop terrace.
.
Rooms are spiffing at this recently redecorated luxury hotel, and staff are particularly helpful and obliging.
Check online for excellent discounts off rack rates.
.
The original and by far the best of the two hotels run by the welcoming Madame Cuc and her friendly and fantastic staff.
Rooms are clean and spacious.
.
Located in a lane with good restaurants, one of HCMC's most popular and sociable hostels includes modern dorms with personal charging stations and lockers, a rooftop bar and plunge pool, and plenty of experience in planning travel and tours around the country.
Ask about the three-day True North motorbike adventure exploring Vietnam's spectacular Ha Giang province on the Chinese border.
.
Combining restaurants, a bar and a poolside spa centre, this riverside property is a good option if you're keen to escape from the big-city bustle.
Verdant surroundings and wooden pavilions create an ambience reminiscent of Bali.
Just note that Vietnamese weddings are often held on weekends, and that downtown Saigon is around 30 minutes by taxi from District 2.
.
Yes, it may have the city's slowest lift, but everything else about the Ambassador Saigon gets two big ticks.
The team at reception is unfailingly friendly, rooms are clean and spacious, and the central location – on a quiet street with good eateries – is removed from the hustle and bustle of nearby Pham Ngu Lao.
Formerly called the Family Inn.
.
This 1925 city landmark enjoys an unmatched location on the Saigon River and its graceful facade, marrying art-nouveau and French-colonial styles, is illuminated at night.
Majestic's rooftop bar is the perfect spot for a cocktail on a breezy evening.
However, rooms are perhaps a little ordinary given the grand address.
.
A modern PNL hostel with an emphasis on good times and meeting other travellers.
Dorms (one for females) are spick and span with bright colours, and a free beer per day is on offer in the rooftop bar (which has a pool table and foosball).
The hostel runs bar crawls three nights a week (free for guests).
.
Close to the Ben Thanh Market, Anpha Boutique features stylish rooms with super-comfortable beds, coffee-making facilities and flat-screen TVs.
The staff are helpful and friendly, and while breakfast on the roof terrace could be better, consolation comes with views of Saigon's Bitexco Financial Tower.
.
This hotel is mixed up.
It's tucked quietly back from the backpacker area, yet most of the refurbished rooms, while comfortable, have the old problem of letting in noise from adjacent rooms.
If you don't mind chatter, MyHotel is a modern, clean place to stay with helpful English-speaking staff.
.
Accessed through a jewellery shop, this smart five-floor, 43-room boutique hotel in the heart of town is a good choice, with attractive online discounts.
Rooms are spacious, but superior and deluxe options are windowless (or have a fake window), so consider opting for premium deluxe.
.
The original Co Giang guesthouse, with a homey atmosphere and helpful staff.
Rates include access to a shared kitchen and rooms all have a fridge and window.
The associated Happy Homes set-up books long-stay accommodation in nearby buildings for US$350 to US$450 per month.
.
The brown-grey marble theme on the floors is weary but rooms, all with bath-tub and flat-screen TV, are clean and inviting.
Staff are dignified, but it's the top-floor pool (rare at this price) with its fine views that steals the show.
Nonguests can take a dip for US$5.
.
This popular, simple and clean guesthouse is run by a pleasant and helpful family.
Rooms are small but clean and four-bed dorms are available, however, there's only one shower room per floor so expect a wait in the morning.
All guests get a couple of free beers.
.
The 485-room Sheraton lives up to expectations with luxurious rooms and a spacious lobby with designer retail shops.
Especially popular with business travellers, the hotel includes an excellent spa, a large fitness centre and a pretty outdoor pool.
.
This three-star hotel's swish entrance, with its aquariums and elegant design, sets a classy tone.
Elios' 81 dark-wood rooms are inviting, with safes and writing desks, and many have fine city vistas.
Breakfast is served in the rooftop restaurant.
.
Eschewing the nanna-ish connotations of its name, Lavender drapes itself stylishly in creamy marble and muted tones.
The location, right by Ben Thanh Market, is excellent.
Note that the two smallest room categories do not have windows.
.
Stuffed away down an alley in Pham Ngu Lao, this established 10-room hotel has decent twin, double and triple rooms with flat-screen TVs and minibars.
The cheapest rooms are without windows, others have balconies.
There's no lift.
.
This comfortable, spick-and-span hotel is a gem, with a top location and polite staff, although for space it's worth outlaying an extra US$20 to upgrade to a deluxe room.
Ask for a room facing out, not into the adjacent block.
.
Tucked away down an alley off Ð Cong Quynh, this clean and well-managed choice carries Madame Cuc's trademark motifs: friendly, welcoming staff, complimentary tea and coffee, free breakfast and good rooms.
No lift.
.
The Sanouva channels a chic Asian vibe and has a good location just two blocks back from Ben Thanh Market.
Rooms are well presented with Vietnamese furnishings and colourful accents.
Book direct for the best rates.
.
On a back alley off Pham Ngu Lao, tall and thin Giang Son has three rooms on each floor, a roof terrace and charming service; the sole downer is that there’s no lift.
Consider upgrading to a room with a window.
.
C-Central is a sleek, modernist hotel with comfortable, compact rooms and a lift.
However, it's bang smack in the very centre of the Pham Ngu Lao backpacking scene so expect chaos and commotion round the clock.
.
A tall and skinny mini-hotel, with a modern reception run by staff wearing redao dai(the national dress of Vietnam).
A lift ascends to the tidy rooms, the cheaper of which are small and windowless.
.
This eight-room mini-hotel lurks down a quiet back lane.
The ground floor is taken up by a restaurant, giving it more of a guesthouse feel.
Rooms have computers and deluxe versions have balconies; no lift.
.
There's no mirrors on the ceiling or pink champagne on ice, but at the guesthouse California, now rebranded under the OYO umbrella, there's a guests' kitchen, roof garden and further rooms across the way.
.
A refurbished, welcoming little hotel with decent, spacious rooms, each with modern furnishings, minibar, flat-screen LCD TVs and a safe.
A kitchen for guest use is available.
.
The Duc Vuong has good-value rooms with ample space and wooden floors, plus friendly staff and a rooftop restaurant that effortlessly morphs into a bar for sunset drinks.
.
This spruce hotel verges on the boutique-business look.
The decor is contemporary and all rooms have flat-screen TVs and snazzy showers, but the cheapest have no windows.
.
In the heart of the action, this efficiently run guesthouse offers a welcoming stay.
The more expensive rooms are worth the extra money for a window.
No lift.
.
This bright and friendly guesthouse has 19 clean and well-presented rooms with all mod-cons, a rooftop terrace decorated with blooming orchids and a lift.
.
Slung down a quiet alley off Ð Cong Quynh, immediately south of Ð Bui Vien, this trim, comfy and spacious hotel exudes a pea-green theme, although the tiled rooms are clean and actually not very green at all.
.
With almost 40 taps, BiaCraft is an essential destination for thirsty souls.
Complementing its own creations are ales and ciders from craft breweries in Saigon and Hanoi; it's possible to take out freshly sealed cans of all available beers.
Combine a tasting paddle with probably the city's best bar food, with quirky offerings like drunken baby potatoes and Nashville hot quail.
There are other BiaCrafts around town, including a (less impressive)branchin the District 2 area.
.
Pasteur Street Brewing turns out a fine selection of craft beer.
Brews utilise local ingredients including lemongrass, rambutan and jasmine, and up to six different beers are always available (small/large beers from 45,000/95,000d).
There are great bar snacks too (try the spicy Nashville fried chicken), also served in the brewery's hip space.
There's a second, largerbranchin District 1.
.
This excellent musical cooperative now has a permanent location in a block with a skyline view for its DJ events and gigs featuring emerging electronic musicians and bands.
It's one of the best places to check out the underground scene in HCMC.
Check the Facebook page for listings.
.
This premier craft brewery has an always-interesting selection of innovative beers on tap.
The selection varies as the Heart of Darkness brewers are always trying something, but the Dream Alone pale ale and Sacred Fire golden ale are great drops.
.
Malt is one of the city's cosiest and most welcoming bars, and has a no-smoking policy (a rarity in HCMC).
There's always a well-curated selection of local craft brews on tap – the savvy bar staff can make good beer recommendations – and there's moreish comfort food, including mac 'n' cheese and sliders.
Darts and a vintage shuffleboard table are added attractions.
.
This District 2 venue has a diverse combination of live music, DJs, cinema nights and good times amid street art.
Cocktails, craft beer and local ciders are available in the raffish garden bar, and there are outdoor flea and farmers markets here bimonthly.
There's a rock-climbing wall that will keep kids occupied for hours.
Check the website for what's on.
.
Live music and Vietnamese craft beers combine on Rogue's rooftop terrace in a gritty building on the riverside edge of District 1.
You'll find good beers such as Lac Brewing's Devil's Lake IPA, and music with an acoustic, blues or rock vibe.
There are DJ sessions on Saturday and also jams and quiz nights.
.
Good luck finding this place (turn left just after the Liberty Central Saigon Citypoint hotel and follow the signs), but when you do discover it, celebrate with a classic cocktail, craft beer or whisky.
The eclectic approach to music stretches from live music on acoustic Thursdays to DJs on Friday and Saturday nights.
The generous happy hour is from 5pm to 8pm.
The snacks menu takes in tapas and fresh spring rolls.
.
Coffee-geek culture comes to HCMC at this spacious upstairs warehouse space.
Single-origin, fair-trade roasts from Dalat feature, and there's a great display of black-and-white photos of old Saigon to peruse while you're waiting for your Chemex or cold brew.
Cold-pressed juices and good snacks (80,000d to 190,000d) are available too.
.
Tucked down a narrow laneway, the off-the-radar Indika Saigon dubs itself the 'House of Curiosity'.
It is definitely worth venturing to, with a barbecue joint and beer bar at the front and the labyrinthine premises used for concerts, open-mic sessions, movie nights and DJs.
Check out the Facebook page for listings.
Cash only.
.
All beers are brewed on-site at this impressive microbrewery (or should that be mega-microbrewery) near Ben Thanh Market.
Ales include a Far East IPA with American and New Zealand hops and every month a seasonal brew or two is released, including Oktoberfest lagers.
There's also decent burgers, salads and seafood.
.
With a long bar – we're talking 10m-plus here – Layla is a laid-back spot that's perfect for the first or last cocktails of the night.
Don't be surprised if the combination of a chic ambience, super-comfy sofas and Med-style bar snacks sees you staying longer than planned.
.
Overlooking District 3 from the 24th floor, this is a prime spot for a stylish sundowner: happy hour is a very generous triple hour whammy, from 5pm to 8pm.
Wine by the glass starts at 200,000d and there are DJs spinning lounge vibes from 8.
30pm nightly.
.
Cool beats, cold beers and a fun crowd of locals, expats and visitors all combine at the New World Saigon Hotel on Saturday afternoons from late November to early June.
With around 500 pool-going guests, what could possibly go wrong?.
A hoppy cut above the backpacker bars lining Ð Bui Vien, Ong Cao is your best bet for craft brews in Pham Ngu Lao.
Bar snacks, including cheese and charcuterie plates, partner well with 16 taps serving mainly local HCMC beers.
.
One of the city's very few openly gay bars, drawing a loyal crowd of locals with a fun, welcoming vibe.
There's plenty going on, with quiz nights, DJs on Saturdays, live bands and even drag-queen bingo (Sundays at 9pm).
.
Fine whisky, good cocktails and local craft beer all appeal at this sophisticated bar a short hop from Pham Ngu Lao.
It's also a top spot to purchase local artisanal goods.
It's LGBT-friendly but welcoming to all.
.
On a little lane in the buzzing area southwest of the Fine Arts Museum this vibrant little roastery serves up a mean espresso or flat white.
There's a street terrace and few tables on the 1st floor.
.
Looking over the Saigon River, this designer-coffee mecca has two roasters on-site and imports beans from across the globe.
They serve mean brunches here too.
.
Tiny gay-friendly bar in the Pham Ngu Lao area where there's live music every night from 9pm-ish.
Happy hour is from 5pm to 9pm and all evening on Wednesday.
.
A short stroll from Pham Ngu Lao, this micro-roastery has well-trained baristas and the house blend has a pleasing acidity and flavour.
It's a tiny space.
.
A D2 institution for arabica beanheads, with a prime spot for your morning macchiato or mocha.
They also sell green-tea creations, smoothies and juices.
.
Secure a window seat and catch the sun going down from this snappy 52nd-floor vantage point over town.
.
Located in a decaying colonial mansion smack in the middle of a busy intersection, this small, kitschy cafe provides an interesting look into what these villas must have looked like a century ago.
Embrace the mustiness and find a corner to enjoy a drink (20,000d) or quick snack, or browse through the small selection of handmade crafts.
There are small apartments upstairs, left much as they were decades ago, with turn-of-the-century tiles and clay roof tiles.
As long as you’re discreet, residents don’t seem to mind people taking a quick peek.
.
Making the most of the bones of a French-colonial building, this shabby-chic upstairs hang-out has exposed brickwork and beams, chandeliers, frilly mirrors, overhead fans chopping a breeze and an Indonesian menu.
Live music – blues, Latin, reggae and funk – draws crowds in the evening, and lazy Sunday afternoon sessions slow the weekend down from 1pm to 5pm.
.
The most upmarket of HCMC's sky bars – it's very popular with local high rollers working their way through a bottle of Hennessy cognac or Johnnie Walker Blue Label – and the only one to enforce a pretty strict dress code.
Dig out your cleanest long trousers and maybe leave the Beer Lao or Vang Vieng rafting T-shirt in your backpack.
.
‘Apo’ has been around since 1991 and remains one of the must-visit clubs in town.
It's a sprawling place with a big dance floor and a courtyard, and its eclectic cast combines travellers, expats, Vietnamese movers and shakers, plus the odd working girl.
Expect pounding techno.
There are (cheesy) live bands on Saturday nights.
.
This cool Vespa and Mod-themed cafe-bar combo is a short walk from Pham Ngu Lao.
Look forward to good coffee, juice and smoothies, well-priced cocktails, and a decent beer list including a few Belgian brews.
Look for the cool VW Kombi van that's the main bar, and the retro Vespas parked outside.
Happy hour runs from 6pm to 8pm.
.
The name says it all – British pub meets French cafe-bar – and the pomegranate-coloured result, ranging over three floors, is a hit.
An extensive beer list, nightly promotions, cocktail jugs and pub grub draw in the crowds.
The surrounding lane is also becoming popular with a local after-dark crowd.
.
Happy hour runs from 5pm to 8pm at this modern sky bar – perfect to make the most of sunset and secure a good discount on the pricey drinks menu.
Pâtés, terrines and charcuterie selections underpin the food menu.
It's just a short walk from the heaving backpacker bars of Pham Ngu Lao.
.
Excellent craft-beer bar across the river in District 2.
Expect locally brewed beers with irreverent names, plus the best of hoppy, distinctive imported brews.
Bar snacks, including wings, burgers and sausages, may well see you kicking on for 'just one more round'.
.
Popular expat bar across in District 2 that offers live music most Friday nights from 9pm.
Check Buddha Bar's Facebook page to see what's on.
Live sports on the big screens and a barbecue menu (60,000d to 120,000d) daily from 4pm are other fine reasons to linger.
.
From the sinuous curve of the hardwood bar to the smoothly arranged bottles on the shelves, soft chill-out rhythms, funky caramel leather furniture and fine tapas menu, Vesper is a cool spot by the river.
There's a roadside terrace, but traffic noise is epic.
.
OMG is a decent rooftop bar near Ben Thanh Market that's less pretentious than some other sky bars around town.
Beers/cocktails cost from 90,000/160,000d.
Happy hour is from 5pm to 7.
30pm.
Food-wise, there's an adventurous spirit evident with tasty tapas.
.
Once you’re done chatting in the garden bars, move to the central bar for serious people-watching and arse-shaking.
The decor is very manga, with cool graphics plastering the walls.
DJs spin most nights, with Bass on Saturdays pulling in the crowds.
.
Not as elevated as other rooftop bars around town, but less pretentious and a whole lot easier on the wallet.
It's still a good escape to look down on the heaving backpacker bustle of Pham Ngu Lao, and the food menu is also good value.
.
Friendly sports bar that schedules an entire planet's worth of live events across any given week.
An essential detour if you're familiar with sporting acronyms from AFL to NBA.
Check the website to see what's on.
.
A chic blend of wood, glass and steel, the Park Hyatt’s ground-floor cocktail bar is a super-stylish meeting ground for Saigon's makers and shakers, with an intimate lounge level slung out above.
.
On the 8th floor of theMajestic Hotel, this is a great spot for a sundowner, with panoramic views of the river and a certain colonial-era cachet.
.
This sports bar is renowned for its convivial atmosphere, good grub and big screens.
English soccer, rugby and Australian Rules Football are all screened on a regular basis.
.
For excellent views in the city centre, stop by Saigon Saigon for a drink around dusk.
This fancy bar has live music, cool breezes and a casually upscale feel.
.
This rooftop bar overlooking busy Ð Nguyen Hue has a good selection of international beers, live gigs, and DJs with a funk, hip-hop and electronica edge.
.
On the Centec Tower's 23rd floor, Shri’s stylish terrace has a separate area for nondiners reached by stepping stones over a tiny stream.
.
Pasteur Street Brewing Company is a spacious modern affair serving up the brand's signature craft ales.
.
Welcome to a raucous mash-up of beer bar, American diner and nightclub.
When the beats kick off around 10pm, you certainly won't mistake a visit to Vuvuzela as a quiet night out.
Definitely a subtlety-free zone.
.
An unexpected find in the backstreets of HCMC, this Czech restaurant brews up fresh pilsner and dark beer daily.
The entrance is down a lane off Ɖ Nguyen Thi Minh Khai.
.
One of the PNL originals, this French-run bar has looooong hours and occasionally hosts live bands.
.
Saigon's hottest ticket is a resolutely urbane, happening space with an open kitchen, distressed brick walls, cool tunes and a slightly edgy location close to the Saigon River.
The vibe is reminiscent of East London or New York, with prices and a wine list to match.
The regularly changing menu traverses the globe with aplomb, raiding Asia, Europe and the Americas for influence.
Seafood options might include Hokkaido scallop sashimi with citrus-based marinade, Dalat tomatoes and puffed heirloom quinoa, while meat eaters will rejoice at dishes like barbecued smoked duck breast with burnt cabbage, black vinegar dressing and Sichuan chilli oil.
Small plates are available (and are a good way to go) as there's so much to savour here.
.
Opened by three-Michelin-starred twin chefs Jacques and Laurent Pourcel, this heritage villa in the city centre offers Mediterranean French gastronomy with wonderfully unexpected pairings like shrimp carpaccio with a dijon-vinaigrette sorbet.
Look for subtle winks to local cuisine, such as the offal spring roll that accompanies stewed Miéral pigeon.
The weekday lunch specials are excellent value at 630,000d for three courses.
Dinner is also served in the minimalist Glass Box next to the villa, while drinks and caviar are available until 2am at the Caviar Bar.
.
This cafe/cultural centre is a gem.
It's tricky to find: off busy Ð Pasteur, along an alley and then up steep stairs in a somewhat rundown apartment building.
But persevere and you'll enter a gorgeous all-day cafe that often segues into a live-music and performance space at night.
Relax over coffee, wine or craft beer or opt for a fine-value lunch deal.
There are ample books to browse while you're lounging on a sofa, plus well-chosen tunes on the stereo and a character or two is always around.
Check Facebook for listings of events.
.
This wonderful florist-cafe is run by an artistic owner who takes as much care with her bouquets as she does with her cooking.
The food is healthy, nutritious and delicious, with lots of Vietnamese salad leaves and tasty morsels to savour.
Located on a backstreet in an emerging hipster corner of town south of Pham Ngu Lao.
The space is open throughout the day for drinks (and flowers!), but food is only served at set times.
Cocktails are also available in the evening (from 5pm to 10pm); reservations required.
.
Stylish Indochinese decor features at this slick place where the focus is on authentic local cuisine.
Many dishes feature the more hearty flavours of northern Vietnam; offerings include deliciousheo quay Quan Bui(roasted pork served with pickle).
Cocktails – from the associated bar across the lane – are among HCMC's best, and upstairs there's an air-conditioned and smoke-free dining room.
.
This serene and elegant vegetarian restaurant requires your attention.
Everything – from the charming service to the delightful Vietnamese dishes and peaceful outside tables – makes dining here an occasion to savour.
Try the tofu in fermented bean sauce or the grilled pumpkin salad.
There's also an equally laid-back and more centrallocation.
.
At the rear of a nail-bar alley near Ben Thanh Market, this superb resto offers rustic, honest dishes from rural Vietnam in hip surrounds.
On the ground floor there are big shared tables, and the quirky decor includes colourful wall paintings and a vintage motorcycle rickshaw doubling as a drinks station.
The upstairs dining room is more quiet and refined.
.
It comes as little surprise to learn that the owner of this place is an architect when you step into this cleverly renovated old villa.
The decor is both rustic and elegant, which is also true of the food, with many veggie options available.
Despite its tucked-away location in the northernmost reaches of District 1, this is no secret hideaway: book ahead.
.
Excellent Vietnamese-inspired vegetarian cuisine in a central garden location.
Settle into the elegant space with subtle lighting and classy furnishings in a lane off the riverfront.
Delectable dishes include calabash and seaweed soup (85,000d) and beetroot salad with passion fruit (140,000d).
.
Shared tables and a sunny whitewashed interior combine with excellent Mediterranean cuisine at this District 2 favourite.
Spanish, Moroccan, Greek and Italian are the main culinary touch points, with menu highlights including paella, souvlaki and tapas, along with some of the city's very best brunch options like greenshakshouka(eggs baked in a spicy spinach, kale, Swiss chard and coriander sauce for 200,000d).
.
Thatched-roof buildings clustered around a courtyard provide an atmospheric setting for this informal but upmarket cafe-bistro-bar.
Phu Quoc seafood is delivered directly and chalked up on the blackboard menu daily.
Mekong Merchant serves the best eggs Benedict in HCMC, but there's so much else of interest here too, including signature dishes like beef tiger beer pot pie with baked mash potato, carrot and peas.
.
When you need a respite from Saigon's teeming streets, this lovely vegetarian restaurant is the perfect choice.
Tucked down a quiet lane near the War Remnants Museum, Chay Garden consists of several dining rooms around a courtyard garden.
Breakfast choices includebun hue(vegan royal noodle soup), and you'll find salads, hotpots and soups for lunch and dinner.
.
Housed in a beautifully restored French colonial-era building, Blanc serves refined Vietnamese fusion amid an eclectic collection of antiques and artwork.
Thought is given to innovative flavours and textures, as in the Norwegian salmon atop a bed of coconut cut into noodles.
The twist: the staff are hearing impaired, and diners are encouraged to interact with them using pictographs of Vietnamese sign language.
The restaurant is located at the end of an alleyway and shares an entrance with sister eatery Noir, Dining in the Dark.
.
Does food taste the same when you can’t see it? That’s the question Noir, Dining in the Dark, aims to answer.
Choose between an Asian, Western or vegetarian set menu and spend your time in the pitch-black dining space trying to figure out what the ingredients actually are (this is surprisingly difficult).
Dishes are revealed in the lounge after you've finished.
The restaurant is located at the end of an alleyway and shares an entrance with its sister eatery,Blanc.
.
This stylish and colourful cafe is home base for Marou, an artisan chocolate producer.
Watch Marou's skilled team tempering and moulding chocolate crafted from local fair-trade cacao, and enjoy drinks (hot chocolate from 90,000d) and snacks also incorporating the stellar ingredients.
Try the iced chocolate with cinnamon and chilli.
.
A slice of the French countryside in Ho Chi Minh City, L’Escale faithfully recreates the menu of two Michelin-starred chef Thierry Drapeau, featuring earthy flavours married with impeccable technique and presentation.
With just seven tables, L’Escale has an exclusive feel, down to the black-suited maître d’ and gloved waiters.
Set menus are popular, as is a visit to Saigon’s only cheese room.
.
Secret House offers a stylish take on home-style Vietnamese cooking close to Ben Thanh Market.
The main dining room features mud-and-straw walls and rustic lamps fashioned from fish traps, while outside tables overlook a herb garden.
The extensive menu includes some countryside specialities, such asnuoc mam kho quet,a caramelised fish sauce used as a dip.
Flavours and presentation are top-notch.
It's located on a wide alleyway (marked with number 55) off Đ Le Thi Hong Gam.
.
You pass through a motorbike parking lot then negotiate the stairs of a faded HCMC apartment building to reach this wonderful rooftop restaurant.
Rogue chickens peck away in the herb garden, Buddhist statues add ambience, and delicious homestyle dishes are served with city views.
Service can sometimes be a littletoocasual, but it's worth persevering for the great flavours.
.
Thronging with locals and foreigners, this is one of HCMC's most popular spots, with a large range of the very best street food on offer in stylish surroundings across three levels.
It's set in a leafy garden ringed by food stalls, wtih each cook serving a specialised traditional dish, ensuring an authentic taste of Vietnamese, Thai, Japanese, Chinese or Korean cuisine.
.
This superstylish restaurant-lounge serves a menu of Vietnamese-inspired fusion dishes.
It's pricey, but well worth the flutter for the top service and classy wine list.
The lunch menu includes classics likecom tam('broken' rice, grilled pork and lightly pickled vegetables) and there are innovative Viet tapas and top-notch cocktails too.
.
Colourful murals and retro socialist posters brighten up this popular bistro with park views.
The menu focuses on street-food classics from around Vietnam, all enjoyed with a bustling and energetic ambience.
Salads are particularly good and there are tempting 'Discovery' menus (from 510,000d), which include four courses, wine and tea.
.
