This small speck of an island, covered in lush vegetation and with clear blue waters, has a sordid 500-year history as a pirate haven that only came to an end during the reunification in 1975.
Today the inhabitants make their living from the sea.
A paved motorbike trail circles the island; you can hike up to the hill temple and visit the tranquil beach, and if you come with a Vietnamese speaker, you can arrange to go out with the fishers.
Besides the 2000-or-so inhabitants who reside in the four small, scrappy fishing villages, there's an army base on top of the hill, keeping a vigilant eye out for potential invaders from Cambodia.
Rumours of pirate treasure have circulated for years, and in 1983 the army promptly expelled from Vietnam a couple of foreign treasure seekers who arrived illegally by boat from Cambodia, equipped with metal detectors.
The best beach on the island isBai Bacon the northern coast, which also offers some local beach shacks to feast on fresh seafood.
A day trip is possible, but there are now several places to stay, including some basic homestays and guesthouses in the 250,000d-to-500,000d range.
Boat trips to nearby islands are available for a negotiable 250,000d.
Going out on a fishing boat at night, you may see the sparkly shapes of fish shooting through the water, thanks to the phosphorescence phenomenon.
Minh Ngaruns boats to Pirate Island (50,000d, one hour) at 8.
15am and 1pm from Ha Tien, returning at 8.
30am and 2.
30pm.
For more on Pirate Island, see the online Vietnam Coracle guide at http://vietnamcoracle.
com/pirate-islands-dao-hai-tac-travel-guide.
.
This Buddhist cave temple is 4km northeast of town.
Scramble through the cave chambers to see the funerary tablets and altars to Ngoc Hoang, Quan The Am Bo Tat and the two Buddhist monks who founded the temples of the pagoda.
A taxi here from town is 60,000d, but you may need to call for one for the return trip as very few pass by.
To the left of the entrance is the Stele of Hatred (Bia Cam Thu), shaped like a raised fist, which commemorates the Khmer Rouge massacre of 130 people here on 14 March 1978.
The wind here creates extraordinary sounds as it funnels through the grotto’s passageways.
Openings in several branches of the cave afford views of nearby Cambodia.
.
The best of the Gulf of Thailand beaches, Mui Nai is 8km west of Ha Tien.
The water is incredibly warm and becalmed, so great for taking a dip, and the beach is much improved thanks to several tonnes of sand from Phu Quoc Island, all set beneath a canopy of lofty palms.
There are beaches on both sides of the peninsula, lined with simple restaurants and guesthouses.
Axe omfrom Ha Tien will cost around 60,000d.
.
This pagoda was founded in the mid-18th century by Nguyen Thi Xuan.
Her tomb and that of one of her female servants are on the hillside behind the pagoda.
Inside the main hall of the pagoda, the most notable statue on the central dais is a bronze Thich Ca Buddha from China.
To get here, continue north past the Mac Cuu Tombs and take the first left onto Ð Phu Dung.
Behind the main hall is a small temple, Dien Ngoc Hoang, dedicated to the Taoist Jade Emperor.
Head up the steep blue stairs to the shrine.
The figures inside are of Ngoc Hoang (the Jade Emperor) flanked by Nam Tao, the Taoist God of the Southern Polar Star and the God of Happiness (on the right); and Bac Dao, the Taoist God of the Northern Polar Star and the God of Longevity (on the left).
The statues are made of papier mâché moulded over bamboo frames.
.
Founded by Mac Cuu in 1730, Tam Bao Pagoda is home to a community of Buddhist nuns.
In front of the splendid, many-tiered pagoda is a statue of Quan The Am Bo Tat (the Goddess of Mercy) standing on a lotus blossom.
Within the sanctuary, the largest statue on the dais represents A Di Da (the Buddha of the Past), made of painted brass.
Outside in the tranquil grounds are the tombs of 16 monks.
Near the pagoda is a section of the city wall dating from the early 18th century.
.
The name translates as East Lake, though Dong Ho is actually an inlet of the sea.
It's said to be most beautiful on nights when there is a full or almost-full moon.
According to legend, fairies dance here on such nights.
The ‘lake’ is just east of Ha Tien, bounded to the east by a chain of granite hills known as the Ngu Ho (Five Tigers) and to the west by the To Chan hills.
.
Not far from town are the Mac Cuu Family Tombs, known locally as Nui Lang, the Hill of the Tombs.
Mac Cuu, a Khmer-appointed 18th-century Chinese governor, and several dozen of his relatives are buried here in traditional Chinese tombs decorated with figures of dragons, phoenixes, lions and guardians.
At the bottom of the complex is an ornate shrine dedicated to the Mac family.
Best with a good guide as the beauty is mostly in the history.
.
From Ha Tien’s riverfront, this Buddhist monastery is a striking sight – sprawling up the hill on the other side of the river.
The buildings themselves are unremarkable, but it’s worth making the steep climb for the sweeping views of the town and countryside.
Follow the narrow road at its base and the monastery is reached via a tiny lane at number 48; look for the yellow sign topped with a Buddhist swastika (symbolising eternity).
.
With contemporary, spacious and stylish rooms, a towering and sinuous outline and ample river views, Ha Tien's most glam hotel enjoys an optimum position on the waterfront.
Staff are helpful in spite of limited English, and the place is practically deserted midweek, so discounts are negotiable.
Karaoke 'entertainment' takes place on the top floor.
.
You could spend days passing anonymously through its characterless halls, but for clean rooms with river views, this recently refurbished hotel is great value.
Large front-room windows offer marginal soundproofing (only because they don't open).
.
A favourite with tour groups and conventions, the Hai Van offers clean, smart (if somewhat featureless) rooms with polished floors.
Some English is spoken, which is useful if you've become used to widespread spoken English in Cambodia.
.
Elegantly presented at an empty Ha Tien intersection, this old-timer has a variety of decent accommodation from simple doubles to spacious rooms with balcony and river views.
.
At this riverfront hotel rooms are spacious, with views of the water from the balconies.
Tell the staff if you want your room cleaned as it won't happen automatically.
.
Dotted with fairy lights and glowing with Chinese lanterns at night, this floating cafe is a breezy choice for a sundowner beer or acafe sua(iced coffee) overlooking the waters of Dong Ho.
.
Run by a resident Western expat and his Vietnamese wife, this friendly little restaurant-bar is a great spot for a cold beer, plunger coffee, impartial travel information and for leafing through copies of theEvening Standard,theObserverand theDaily Mail.
The menu runs to all-day, full-English breakfasts, filled baguettes, Greek salad, mango shakes and more.
Imminent plans are afoot to relocate to a new homestay and bar about 4km from town; details will be available on the website.
.
A brightly lit stall, metal tables and a family effort is what creates excellenthu tieu, a chicken noodle soup that is the Mekong's pho.
Crowds form here for excellent succulent broiled chicken and fat udon-style egg noodles in a clear broth doused in the usual herby Vietnamese favourites.
One of the brothers speaks English.
.
Smartly refurbished and sitting by the River Hotel, this cheery boat is a good bet on weekends, when a team of chefs is on hand to feed the convention-attending masses.
The rest of the week the results can be somewhat hit-and-miss.
.
Some of Ha Tien's cheapest and best eats are available at the night market, which has recently relocated to the new area of the city to the west.
The grilled seafood is fresh and particularly good.
.
