This island is home to a monkey sanctuary, which houses at least a hundred wild but unafraid simians.
Take care: like monkeys everywhere, the line between cheeky charmer, thieving pest and dangerous beast is very fine.
Keep a firm hold on your possessions.
While this is the most accessible part of the forest to visit, it’s hard to stomach the cruel conditions in which the stars of the adjacent animal circus (including bears, dogs and monkeys) are kept.
The circus operates mainly on holiday weekends for domestic Vietnamese tourists, and has been criticised strongly by animal rights organisation Animals Asia.
See www.
animalsasia.
org for the latest information and a petition to close this circus on what is a Unesco-accredited island reserve.
The motorboat ride (about 250,000d) through the waterways to the VC’s Rung Sac base is the absolute highlight of a visit.
At the reconstructed base, dummies portray VC cadres sawing open unexploded American bombs in order to salvage the explosives, and wrestling with crocodiles, which were once common here but are now confined to crocodile farms like the one by the entrance.
A small museum has wildlife displays, along with exhibits relating to local war history and archaeological finds.
Coming from HCMC, Monkey Island is to the right of the main road, about 34km past the ferry.
.
Facing Vung Tau at the southeastern tip of Can Gio district, this small town has aCao Dai templeand a largemarket, which is made very conspicuous by some rather powerful odours.
Seafood and salt are the local specialities; the vegetables, rice and fruit are all imported by boat from around HCMC.
Adjacent to the local shrimp hatchery is a vastcemeteryandwar memorial, 2km from Can Gio Market.
.
Located within Can Gio's mangroves, Vam Sat is noted for crab-angling, a crocodile farm andDam Doi(Bat Swamp), an area where fruit bats nest.
Boats to Vam Sat (around 250,000d) depart from under Dan Xay Bridge, which is on the main road, 22km south of the ferry and 12km north of Monkey Island.
.
This war memorial is 2km from Can Gio Market.
.
