May 23, 2023•6min read.
The Reunification Express line, known as the North–South Railway, is an epic rail journey © Scenic Vietnam / Shutterstock.
8 of the world's most incredible train journeys.
May 23, 2023•6min read.
From cutting through the countryside to connecting a country's great cities, the world's best railway journeys offer an entirely new perspective on a destination..
There’s plenty of magic with train travel. Sometimes it's in the carriage – meeting fellow travelers and eating and sleeping with the sound of steel wheel swishing on steel rail beneath you. Sometimes it's outside, in the landscape the train traverses – an adventure, an experience, an insight into the heart of a nation..
Our book,Amazing Train Journeys, rounds up the world's greatest railway rides. But these 8 train journeys are also first class..
Start– Ho Chi Minh City;End– Hanoi; Departs daily;Distance– 1072 miles (1726km);Duration– two days.
Some railways rattle through historic cities; others swoosh beside spectacular coastlines. A few have an epic history, and one or two are remarkable for the colorful characters onboard.The Reunification Expressline, known as the North–South Railway, fulfills all these criteria..
One of Southeast Asia’s best-loved railways – andmost epic overnight train journeys in the world– its fortunes have waxed and waned with those of the country it traverses. Traveling more than a thousand miles fromHo Chi Minh Cityin the south toHanoiin the north, there is no more atmospheric way to haul intoVietnam’s twin metropolises. And there’s no better way of exploring all the glories in between..
Start– Chicago;End– San Francisco; Departs daily;Distance– 2438 miles (3924km);Duration– 52hrs 40mins.
For soaking up the scenic grandeur of the North American continent, nothing compares withAmtrak’s California Zephyr train,one of the US’ best train journeys. This classic three-day ride travels nearly 2500 miles (4000km) across prairies, deserts, theRocky Mountainsand theSierra Nevadaon its way fromChicagotoSan Francisco..
The scenery is magnificent throughout – especially when seen through the floor-to-ceiling windows of the lounge car – but if you can only do one section, opt for the riveting 185-mile (298km) stretch betweenDenverand Glenwood Springs, where the train travels through an often roadless wilderness of deep, narrow gorges near the Colorado River’s headwaters. Better still,Amtrak is planning to add more night trainsjust like it..
Start– Puno;End– Cuzco; departs three times a week;Distance– 241 miles (388km);Duration– 10hrs.
Traversing the Altiplano, from the shores ofLake Titicacato the beating heart of the Inca capital, the railway from Puno toCuzcocuts a ponderous but picturesque path through the snow-dusted peaks and voluptuous valleys of the Andes..
Between drinks in the bar and enjoying entertainment and fine food in the restaurant, passengers aboard Perurail’s Lake Titicaca train can ogle the vista from an open-air observatory car, as they rumble across the epic Peruvian plains, passing hardy bowler-hatted llama farmers and traveling through remote towns and villages..
Start– Bĕijīng;End– Lhasa; departs daily;Distance– 2330 miles (3750km);Duration– 40 hours.
Linking the futuristic architecture and imperial wonders ofBĕijīngwith the dreamlike monasteries and palaces ofLhasa, theZ21 traintransports its passengers from the neon lights of urbanChinato a once-remote land of magenta-robed monks, where the air is heady with the aroma of incense and yak-butter candles..
As it chugs westward the train climbs nearly 16,400ft (5000m) on its journey to the roof of the world: the Tibetan plateau, where it glides past grazing yaks, fluttering prayer flags, snow-capped mountains and boundless blue skies. Onboard, passengers slurp noodles and play cards with their bunkmates..
Start– London (Euston);End– Fort William; departs daily;Distance– 509 miles (819km);Duration– 13hrs 30 mins.
Segueing from the sooty suburbs and crowded concrete-lined cul-de-sacs of centralLondonto the crisp air and soaring vistas of theScottish Highlandsvia one overnight train journey epitomizes the romance of rail travel..
It’s just a pity the whole experience – from buffet-car banter and single malt nightcaps, to being lulled into la-la land by the rhythm of the rails and waking to bedside views of towering granite peaks – feels like it’s over in a flash. Though it may be short, especially when compared to some of the other overland odysseys on this list,the Caledonian is surely Britain's best train ride..
Start– Oslo;End– Bergen; departs four times a day;Distance– 308 miles (496km);Duration– 6hrs 30 mins.
This astonishing train is arguably one ofEurope's best railway rides. One of the wonders of 19th-century railway building, and yet isn't as well-known outside ofNorway. In just over six hours and 300 miles (490km) of travel, it covers the spectrum of Norway’s natural splendor: climbing canyons, crossing rivers, burrowing through mountainsides and traversing barren icescapes. All aboard for the Bergensbanen: a mainline into Norwegian nature..
Start– Christchurch;End– Greymouth; departs daily;Distance– 139 miles (223km);Duration– 4hrs 30 mins.
In fewer than five hours, the journey renowned as one the world’s finest and most scenic one-day train rides spans very distinct microclimates in the South Island ofNew Zealand. Commence the TranzAlpine experience inChristchurch, before speeding along the Canterbury Plains and climbing quickly through the snow-capped mountains of the Southern Alps..
After traversing some of the country’s more remote alpine scenery, descend through a thrilling tunnel to emerge among the lakes, streams and rainforests of theSouth Island’s West Coast. From there, more superb coastal and alpine scenery is on tap for independent travelers..
Start– Dar es Salaam;End– Kapiri Mposhi; departs twice a week;Distance– 1160 miles (1860km);Duration– 46 hours.
On a continent where taking things slowly is compulsory, it won’t come as much of a surprise the 46-hour journey along the 1160-mile (1860km) route fromTanzania’s port city to New Kapiri Mposhi inZambiaoften ends up taking far longer. Then again, few trains in the world offer the chance – and we should point out that it’s a chance rather than a guarantee – of spotting big game from your seat, but the Tazara (Tanzania and Zambia Railway Authority) does exactly that..
For many, the highlight is neither the scenery nor the wildlife, though; it is the chance to spend two days watching everyday life out of the window, and enjoying the clamor and chaos when the train pulls to a halt, scheduled or unscheduled..
This article was first published August 2019 and updated May 2023.
Hop on board Europe’s railway network and discover a sustainable and stress-free way to explore the continent. Lonely Planet’s experts reveal how to make the most of the newest high-speed routes and the best places to stop off along the way..
Hop on board Europe’s railway network and discover a sustainable and stress-free way to explore the continent. Lonely Planet’s experts reveal how to make the most of the newest high-speed routes and the best places to stop off along the way..
May 25, 2023 • 6 min read.
Passengers can now travel from London to Berlin on a cross-border night train service..
May 4, 2023 • 6 min read.
Next year, Dreamstar Lines hopes to channel the heyday of train travel with a glamorous overnight service between Los Angeles and San Francisco..
May 2, 2023 • 6 min read.
From the vacation of a lifetime to the life of a digital nomad, we've got everything you need to know about entry requirements for Panama..
Apr 20, 2023 • 6 min read.
Lonely Planet’s Tom Hall traveled from his native London across the heart of Europe on an overnight train. Here’s how it went..
Mar 28, 2023 • 6 min read.
There’s no getting around the sheer size and scale of the USA – it's massive. The best way to see it all is by rail. These are the 9 best train journeys..
Feb 3, 2023 • 6 min read.
Plunging cliffs, dramatic waterfalls, jagged rock faces and flashes of coastline give these 10 remarkable rail journeys a cinematic quality..
Jan 20, 2023 • 6 min read.
Amtrak, the USA’s only passenger train operator, announced that it has taken the first steps to upgrade its overnight trains for the first time in 40 years..
Dec 7, 2022 • 6 min read.
Take your time to explore India's inspiring landscapes and cultures, but first you're probably going to need to get a visa..
Sep 13, 2022 • 6 min read.
Following the death of Queen Elizabeth II, the UK is in a mourning period of 10 days - what will that mean for travel?.
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Mar 21, 2023•4min read.
Experience the best flavors of Vietnam with this food tour by Elsewhere by Lonely planet © hadynyah / Getty Images.
Picture yourself in Vietnam with Elsewhere by Lonely Planet.
Mar 21, 2023•4min read.
Riding a scooter through the streets of Hanoi inVietnamis one of those things I’ve always wanted to do but was too afraid to attempt. Patrick Radden Keefe’s 2017New Yorker profile of Anthony Bourdaindescribed it thusly, “Bourdain told me that the only way to see Hanoi was on the back of a scooter: ‘To be anonymous, another helmeted figure in the middle of a million little dramas and comedies happening on a million bikes moving through this amazing city – every second is pure joy.’”.
And pure joy is how I would describe my recent conversation with Thanh Huynh,Elsewhere by Lonely Planet's local expert in Vietnam. Along with his business partner Tuan Pham, Thanh creates food-focused itineraries that celebrate Vietnam’s diverse cuisine and culture. Read on to learn more about these unique culinary experiences..
Learn more about booking a trip to withElsewhere by Lonely Planet..
Eat, learn, repeat on a food-focused trip through Vietnam crafted by local expert Thanh Huynh for Elsewhere by Lonely Planet. Here are some highlights from one of their recent trips..
On your first night inSaigon, you’ll climb on the back of a scooter and head into the city center to taste the diverse flavors of the market, like a Chinese roasted duck and a French baguette..
Enter Bên Tre Province and island-hop on a small-boat tour in theMekong Delta, which includes a stop at an artisan workshop and lunch with a local farming family..
This rail journey toHuêis among the most beautiful in Southeast Asia. Enjoy coastal and rural views and buy snacks from vendors who hop on along the way..
Cruise the glorious waters in the less-touristy area of Lan Ha Bay and take in stunning scenery. Kayak into a sea cave and sip cocktails while the sun sets..
On your last night dineen familleand savor somechả cá, a freshwater fish marinated in a slew of fragrant spices that's a specialty of the city..
Read more:The best time to visit Vietnam.
Spend some time getting to know Thanh Huynh, local expert and lifelong champion of Vietnam’s culture..
I was born and raised in Vietnam. When I was 18, I just said to my family, “I’ll travel.” My family at that time was like, “What does that mean? Traveling?” And I said it means I put some of my clothes in a bag and I’m leaving..
That is when I traveled all over Vietnam. Then later I decided to move to France and started working in hospitality. The last hotel job I had there was being on the opening team of the Mandarin Oriental in Paris. I was totally convinced by the philosophy of the brand, the personalized service..
Yes. I thought the country had huge potential for tourism, especially in terms of food. You can travel 14 days from North to South Vietnam and not eat the same food every day. I’m very lucky being born into a foodie family, they cooked all the time. We recently hosted a home-cooked feast for 350 people. I was in charge of the sauces. This is our tradition..
It’s family food, comfort food. My family is originally from the north, and when I go home I immediately go to the local place for a bowl of phở. This is the right time to talk about Vietnamese food. People [here] are totally foodies without knowing – it’s in our DNA..
Like the French, we do have terroir in Vietnam. The rice from the Mekong Delta [for example], people will pay three times more to get that specific rice from a particular village. The same with teas from the north. It’s all very unique, but there hasn’t been good communication about this aspect of Vietnam..
It’s fusion. In Saigon, there’s a quintessential spring roll with jicama that was brought in from Mexico, Chinese sausage and sweet Thai basil. You can only find this dish in Saigon. There’s also Cantonese dim sum, but with fermented soy from the north of Vietnam instead of the usual soy sauce and vinegar. This is diversity. There is such a mix of cultures; it’s very blended..
When my friends come to visit, we eat a lot, but still get hungry. You’re not ever overly full because Vietnamese food is very light, very healthy. And always fresh..
.
.
Meet Elsewhere, Lonely Planet's new travel-planning service. From Argentina to Vietnam, our worldwide network of local experts can plan your trip from arrival to departure, so you can spend less time poring over train timetables and more having the best experiences possible..
Meet Elsewhere, Lonely Planet's new travel-planning service. From Argentina to Vietnam, our worldwide network of local experts can plan your trip from arrival to departure, so you can spend less time poring over train timetables and more having the best experiences possible..
Jun 23, 2021 • 4 min read.
It is likely that some traditional Vietnamese dishes will excite the most adventurous but that some tourists find difficult to eat because of its peculiarity..
Mar 17, 2020 • 4 min read.
Ho Chi Minh City is a foodie's dream. From cheap eats to tasty vegetarian options to Vietnamese Fusion, here's the best places to eat in Ho Chi Minh City..
Dec 13, 2019 • 4 min read.
Chicago’s first full-service board game café will open in January, with the creators of Cards Against Humanity behind the enterprise..
May 15, 2019 • 4 min read.
Vietnam is the world’s second largest coffee exporter, and its vibrant cafe scene is having a real moment. One of Southeast Asia’s fastest developing….
Jun 8, 2018 • 4 min read.
As Vietnam’s most populous city with many universities, businesses and modern conveniences, Ho Chi Minh City draws people from all over the country, many….
Mar 1, 2018 • 4 min read.
From detoxifying buddha bowls to artfully-layered, deconstructed burritos, bowl foods have come along way since soups and stews were the stock options….
Feb 9, 2017 • 4 min read.
Cheap. Tasty. A traveller staple. Noodles claim their place on menus the world over and chances are you’ve had some recently – whether hot or cold, sauced….
Oct 12, 2016 • 4 min read.
Whether we realise it or not, food is one of the key ways in which we experience a place when travelling. That secret locals' tapas bar you stumbled….
Mar 18, 2012 • 4 min read.
Lunch tastes best from a curb-side cart: grab your fork or simply use your fingers, and munch your way through the world’s best street eats. This tempting….
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Jan 20, 2023•7min read.
Vietnam is perfect for exploring on two (or four) wheels © Rodolphe Bonneau / EyeEm / Getty Images.
The 7 best road trips in Vietnam weave past mountains, jungles and beaches.
Jan 20, 2023•7min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythicalnagaserpent,Vietnamcurves around the eastern shores of mainland Southeast Asia, stretching all the way from China in the north to Cambodia and the Mekong Delta in the south. Its twin megacities – Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City – are divided by 1137km (707 miles) of mountains, jungles, paddy fields, beaches and historic sites. In other words, this is perfect country for road-tripping..
The trip between Vietnam's northern and southern capitals is just one of many epic road trips that call out to adventurers on four (or, more commonly, two) wheels. With more than 61 million motorbikes on Vietnam's roads, intrepid bikers will find themselves in good company as they explore the country’s wonderfully diverse landscapes, with ample repair shops, gas stations and food stops along the way..
Whether you’re thinking of hitting the road by car or motorbike, here’s our pick of Vietnam’s best road trips, from coastline freewheeling to dizzying spirals into the mountains of Vietnam's wild northwest..
Best road trip for wild swimming and mountain passes.
Ha Giang–Ha Giang; 350km (218 miles).
The soaring peaks and plunging valleys of Vietnam’s northernmost province are best enjoyed at a leisurely pace, with plenty of stop-offs for revitalizing dips in waterfalls, roadside snacks (nothing keeps energy levels up like dried buffalo), and to snap photos of the rice and corn terraces tumbling down the valley’s steep hillsides. Start the adventure in Ha Giang city, the gateway to a land of conical, forested peaks plucked straight from an antique scroll painting..
Ha Giangmeans "water and mountains" in Vietnamese, and you’re never far from either when you tackle this loop through Yen Minh, Dong Van and Bao Lam, with gurgling streams and cascading waterfalls forming a major part of the scenery. Winding its way through communities of at least 10 different ethnic minorities, this rewarding multi-day drive offers plenty of opportunities for side trips and activities, including trekking, river-boating and caving..
Planning tip:The Ma Pi Leng Pass is hands down the most scenic section of the drive, with jagged mountains surrounding the emerald Nho Que River. Remember to factor in a half-day for a quiet boat trip with a spot of swimming in its enticing waters..
Best road trip to spy rice terraces and waterfalls.
Cao Bang–Ban Gioc; 80km (50 miles).
The drive fromCao Bangto the churningBan Gioc Waterfall, which straddles the China-Vietnam border, takes adventurers through some of Northern Vietnam’s most pristine pastoral terrain. Lush farmlands, stilt villages and crystal-clear lakes are all on the itinerary. However, for driving enthusiasts, nature's creations might be outdone by a man-made wonder: the 3.5km-long Ma Phuc Pass, with its seven writhing bends offering gorgeous views of the terraced fields below..
For more natural highlights, consider a stop-off at the vast, stalactite-filledNguom Ngao Cave, which extends for several kilometers underground, but save plenty of time for the road trip’s primary focus. Fed by the Quay Son River, the Ban Gioc Waterfalls are located partly inChinaand partly in Vietnam, and they thunder dramatically over a series of greenery-draped shelves. Take in the falls from the viewing platforms or hop on a bamboo raft for a closer look at the impressive cascades, which fall over 30m (98ft)..
Planning tip:While worth tackling as a standalone trip, this route is also a popular add-on to the Ha Giang Loop..
Best road trip to visit this French colonial hill station.
Dalat–Nha Trang; 134km (83 miles).
From the cool climes of the highlands aroundDalatto the sunny beaches ofNha Trang, this short and simple road trip is all about changing scenery and microclimates. Get an early start so you have time to appreciate the hilly terrain en route and the coastal views near the end of the drive..
Begin in the hillsides around Dalat, founded as a salubrious hill station where French colonists came to escape the oppressive heat of Saigon (now Ho Chi Minh City). This is a very unique area of Vietnam, where the scent of pine trees hangs in the air and farms cultivate strawberries, coffee and flowers instead of rice..
As you descend from the mountains and the humidity begins to return, things start to feel more conventional. The paved QL27C road unfurls around hills and snakes through tiny villages all the way to the coast, where a dip in the turquoise waters ofNha Trang Beachmakes for a worthy close to this trip..
Best road trip for dramatic views and hairpin turns.
Danang–Lang Co Beach; 20km (12 miles).
Before the Hai Van Tunnel was completed in 2005, just the thought of enduring the hairpin turns and blind corners of the Hai Van Pass was enough to send shivers down the spines of bus passengers traveling betweenDanangandHue. Now with significantly less car traffic, this short but stunning ride is a manageable, memorable trip even for the novice driver..
Translating as "Ocean Clouds" in Vietnamese, the Hai Van Pass is bordered by jungle-clad mountains on one side and cliffs plunging down to the East Sea on the other, a dramatic setting that has made this road one of the most Instagrammed highways in the world – with a whopping 4298 pictures per mile!.
Detour:Stop at the mid-way point for a Vietnamese-style iced coffee and admire the Indochina-era Hai Van Gate and the remains of several French fortifications. While the pass officially ends at the windsweptLang Co Beachat its northern end, most travelers continue for another hour or so to reach the former imperial city of Hue to gaze at its palaces and timeless tombs..
Best road trip to zip along the lush Mekong Delta.
Ho Chi Minh City–My Tho; 70km (44 miles).
The rice paper-flatMekong Deltadoesn’t get much road trip love because its every-shade-of-green rice fields can turn from mesmeric to slightly monotonous as the miles mount up. However, once you get outside of sprawling, smoggyHo Chi Minh City, you’ll see the urban shrubbery give way to majestic palms, lush banana trees and glimmering waterways amongst the emerald rice paddies..
While the scenery here is certainly evocative, the best part of driving in the Mekong Delta is taking your foot off the gas and losing yourself in the tiny riverside laneways and byways, where life moves at a very different pace to the buzzing streets of HCMC..
When you eventually make it toMy Tho– a town famed for its chewy noodle, pork and shrimp soup – further cultural experiences await, with the flower farms of Sa Dec a short drive to the west andCan Tho, home to the largest floating market in the Delta, located to the southwest..
Best road trip for deserted island beaches.
Dam Trau–Ben Dam; 25km (15 miles).
Isolated from the mainland for years, theCon Dao islandsare one of Vietnam’s natural wonders. Con Son, the largest and only inhabited island of the archipelago, has just one main road stretching across its length – a motorcycle trip is not only the best way to see the rural splendor of the island but also to hop from one gorgeous deserted beach to the next..
Start at Dam Trau, a long stretch of beach dotted with seafood shacks near the airport, and wind your way past forested hillsides, a French colonial-era prison, and a string of glorious beaches that only appear during low tide, ending up at Ben Dam where ferries from the mainland come and go. Take things slowly over a morning or afternoon and bring your swimming costume..
Best road trip for quintessential Vietnam experiences.
Ho Chi Minh City–Hanoi; 1880km (1168 miles).
There are several different routes between Vietnam’s two biggest cities, depending on whether you like beaches, mountains or smooth highways, but for the best balance between driving time (about two weeks) and excellent scenery, hit the Ho Chi Minh Highway, part of which was once used to transport soldiers and supplies during the Vietnam War..
After exiting busy Ho Chi Minh City, follow the road along the Truong Son mountain range as it snakes its way past sleepy hamlets, where the smell of coffee from nearby plantations hangs thick in the air. This barren plateau gives way to forested mountains as you reach Central Vietnam, considered the most scenic stretch of this epic road trip..
Detour:Adventurers will want to stop atPhong Nha Ke Bang National Park, home to the world’s largest cave, andCuc Phuong, Vietnam’s oldest national park, located in the Red River Delta, before joining the throng of traffic on the ancient streets ofHanoi..
.
This article was first published May 2021 and updated January 2023.
This book showcases 50 of the greatest road trips on Earth, from classic routes in America, Australia and Europe, to incredible adventures in Asia and Africa..
This book showcases 50 of the greatest road trips on Earth, from classic routes in America, Australia and Europe, to incredible adventures in Asia and Africa..
May 2, 2023 • 7 min read.
From the vacation of a lifetime to the life of a digital nomad, we've got everything you need to know about entry requirements for Panama..
Jan 3, 2023 • 7 min read.
The best times to visit Taiwan, whether you’re a fan of cheap city breaks or long hikes to Taiwan’s top hot springs..
Dec 20, 2022 • 7 min read.
At Lonely Planet, we're always planning a trip somewhere. Here's where our staff is dreaming of going in 2023..
Dec 7, 2022 • 7 min read.
Take your time to explore India's inspiring landscapes and cultures, but first you're probably going to need to get a visa..
Jul 23, 2022 • 7 min read.
Read everything you need to know about securing a visa to visit Taiwan, a land of fabulous food, stunning hikes, delightful beaches and much more..
Jun 30, 2022 • 7 min read.
Taipei may be hot most of the year, but there's plenty to do whenever you go. Here's our month-to-month guide for traveling to Taipei..
Feb 27, 2022 • 7 min read.
From what to pack to social etiquette, here is everything you need to know before visiting Malaysia..
Oct 18, 2021 • 7 min read.
Ready to get back into the race? We've got you. Here are the best places to run a marathon in the next year..
Oct 14, 2021 • 7 min read.
Stretching from Central Asia to the jungles of Vietnam, China is a land of endless travel opportunities. Here's what you need to know about getting a visa..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Jan 6, 2023•10min read.
Motorbiking is one of the best ways to explore Hanoi and other parts of Vietnam © Nicolas McComber / Getty Images.
The top 15 experiences in Vietnam.
Jan 6, 2023•10min read.
Scratching China’s back with its mountain-studded crown,Vietnam’s tall and slender body extends its toes all the way south to the tropical waters off Cambodia’s coast. From mega-cities to white-sand beaches, jade-green paddy fields and soaring limestone peaks, Vietnam offers a staggering pick of different adventures and landscapes. It’s hard to decide where to start..
Seek breathtaking outdoor experiences in diverse landscapes, sample delightfully sweet coffee and visit tranquil countryside rice terraces. These and more make up the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Vietnam’s Nguyen Dynasty ruled inHueuntil 1945. The imperial city wasn’t just the country’s seat of power but also the epicenter of its classic cuisine: of Vietnam's estimated 3,000 dishes, some 1,700 originate in Hue. The Old Empire cuisine consisted of "imperial dishes" (ẩm thực cung đình) created within theImperial Cityby an entourage of 50 royal chefs with ingredients sourced around the world and "royal dishes" (ẩm thực hoàng gia), or the most court-worthy "peasant food" found outside the citadel..
They were all painstakingly prepared and presented as choreographed banquets of up to 50 dishes to please all of the emperor’s senses. Some picks from that opulent royal menu are still served in some of Hue's best restaurants, such as Cung Dinh, Thin Gia Vien and Hoang Phu. They offer striking, labor-intensive plates that give diners a veritable taste of Hue’s past imperial meals..
.
The red-shanked doucs of the Son Tra Nature Reserve, a mountainous peninsula overlooking the bay ofDanangin central Vietnam, have stolen the show since American troops aptly named their haven “Monkey Mountain.” With golden-furred faces, red legs, glove-like white arms and long, ash-gray tails, Son Tra’s last 1300 doucs have become an unwilling attraction because of their rarity. Crowds of tourists flock to photograph them..
Planning tip:Absolutely refrain from feeding the wildlife to avoid disrupting their eating habits and the population’s health..
Many visit the Unesco-protected ancient town ofHoi An, but fewer venture inland to another Unesco delight –Mỹ Sơn, a cluster of Hindu temple ruins surrounded by jungle and a ring of mountains protecting the sacred Thu Bon river. Built between the 4th and 14th centuries by the Hindu kingdom of the Cham, the terracotta-hued brick tower temples of Mỹ Sơn testify to the original site of their religious and political capital. The ruins are open from 6am to 5pm, with sunrise tours departing from Hoi An increasingly popular..
Planning tip:Visit in the afternoon after 2pm for a more intimate experience..
Come to grips with one of the world's youngest religions in the southern Mekong Delta town ofTay Ninh, an easy day pilgrimage fromHo Chi Minh City. Founded by Ngô Văn Chiêu in 1926, Cao Dai is a monotheistic faith fusing principles of Buddhism, Taoism, Christianity, the occult and Islam, with the ultimate goal of freeing the soul from the endless cycle of reincarnation..
TheCao Dai Holy Seemay look like a European-styled church fronted by two bell towers from a distance. A closer look reveals turrets decorated with weapon-toting statues, an all-seeing eye, and even a Communist-looking red star – the sect worships, among others, Jesus Christ, Buddha, Mohammed and even French novelist Victor Hugo. Visitors can enter the shrine to witness prayers four times a day..
Vietnam largely moves on two wheels, and even if it may take courage to adjust to the traffic, a motorbike offers total freedom to explore the country. Congestion thaws at the edge of any city, leaving the northern and central mountains, thousands of miles of coastline, and the green paddies of theMekong Deltaopen to endless adventures. The large availability of motorbikes for rent means that planning short multi-day loops around most towns is as straightforward as planning multi-week cross-country journeys..
Planning tip:Be aware that international driving permits are becoming increasingly necessary, and your insurance may stipulate that you have a motorcycle license at home to be valid..
A staggering 208m (682ft) wide and 70m (229ft) tall, the breathtakingBan Gioc Waterfallson the Quay Son River mark the border between Cao Bang and China's Guanxi provinces. They are the widest falls in all of Vietnam. Bamboo rafts on the two sides of this liquid border punt visitors to the base of the cascade for close-up views. While it’s possible to hike beyond the falls or up to a nearby hilltop temple, keen hikers will find the nearbyNguom Ngao cavesand their kilometer-long walkway, flanked by an impressive number of well-lit stalactites, a more rewarding challenge..
Detour:Cao Bang,90km (56 miles) away, is the springboard for an offbeat region filled with more caves, village homestay experiences and delicious local food..
The former French Hill station ofSapa, northern Vietnam's most popular gateway intoChina, is surrounded by mountains so impressive that the French colonizers called them the “Tonkinese Alps.” This is the realm of the H'Mong and Dao ethnic minorities, who farm terraced paddy fields wearing beautiful traditional attire still to this day..
Don't think that only Vietnam's northernmost reaches have mountains and cooler climates: 308km (191 miles) northeast of Ho Chi Minh City isDalat, a former French colonial hill station dotted with hundreds of old-world European villas clustered around the whitewashedKing Palace. One visitor favorite up here isHang Nga Crazy House, an ever-changing avant-garde guesthouse created by artist Ms Dang Viet Nga. It mixes swirls of color, wavy structures, sculptural bedrooms and fairytale-like turrets into a building you’ve never imagined..
The Dak Lak province seals the southern end of Vietnam's Central Highlands with endless undulating basaltic hills. At 1600m (5250ft), this is the perfect coffee-growing ground..
Coffeeholics should travel to the region's capital ofBuon Ma Thuotto tuck into the surrounding hills where dozens of different coffee strains, from Arabica to Liberica and Robusta, are grown by eco-sustainable farms..
Planning tip:The best time to visit is from September to the end of December, when the region is in full swing for the harvest season..
The coastal town ofQuy Nhonhas somehow remained hidden behind the 10km (6-mile) stretch of land that separates it from ever-busy Highway 1. Its long, fine white beaches backed by mountains have earned Qui Nhon the name “Maldives of Vietnam.” Start in Quy Nhon beach, straight in town and lined with low-key bars, and then hop to the true local favorite,Ky Co beach, a less-developed arch of powdery white sand about 30 minutes drive out of town – visit early or late in the day after most of the domestic tourists have retired..
Detour:Just a few more minutes' drive away is Eo Gio, a series of red rocky cliffs soaring right next to the blue sea. Nature lovers can try the walking path that snakes along the coastline or climb up the rocky hills for perfect views..
ThePhong Nha-Kẻ Bàng National Parkin north central Vietnam’s jungle-covered Quang Binh province straddling theLaosborder is filled with caves, including the world’s largest,Hang Son Doong. Its scale is mind-blowing: a mile in, and a 747 airplane could fly through the cave’s tunnel. Because parts of the limestone ceiling have collapsed and brought in sunlight, Hang Son Doong contains an entire rainforest ecosystem with trees as tall as buildings..
Flying foxes, rare langurs, and even a small population of tigers dwell in this unique underworld. What could be the world's biggest stalagmite, the 200ft-tall "Hand of Dog,'' is also found here. Since 2012, one tour company has been taking a very strict number of visitors into Son Doong for a treacherous – and very expensive at $3000 – four-day trek, but beyond the world’s largest, dozens of other caves await to be explored..
To many Westerners, the name “Vietnam” evokes images of the war that split the country into two halves between 1955 and 1975. The city may have changed its name from Saigon toHo Chi Minh City, but it hasn’t forgotten that grisly past. TheHCMC Museumboasts informative photo exhibitions, war memorabilia and artifacts, while theWar Remnants Museumpulls no punches in detailing war atrocities, napalm burns, unexploded ordnance and a perfectly conserved US tank..
Detour:To get a close feel of what the war enticed, hop on a tour of theCu Chi Tunnelsoutside of town for a real-life crawl into the claustrophobic burrows (slightly enlarged for the comfort of tourists) that the Communist guerrilla troops, known as the Viet Cong, used to become invisible..
Three hours east ofHanoi,Halong Bayis rightly one of Vietnam's most touristic sites, with 1600 jagged limestone islands emerging from the sea like ash-green daggers. While hundreds of boats depart from Halong daily, the adjacentBai Tu Long Bayto the northwest is still a less-touristy waterworld filled with rows of jungle-studded limestone karsts that rise like fangs amid remote floating villages. A highlight is kayaking in the heart of the bay to Vung Vieng, 24km (15 miles) away from the mainland, hopping between fishermen's homes to learn about their lifestyle..
Hemmed in Vietnam's northwestern corner, the rustic countryside around Mu Cang Chai is still largely rural and a perfect spot to try a less-crowded highland experience. The highlight here is the 2200 hectares of towering vertical terraced rice fields. Declared a national heritage site in 2007, Mu Cang Chai’s hills are carved with giant steps that rise to the sky from the valleys forged by the Red River..
These days, charming ecolodges on stilts have come to supplement the choice of simple yet authentic indigenous homestays manned by the local H'mong minority. All are good reasons to trek between villages and try their freshest farm-to-table dishes..
Breaking into the South China sea like an open hand, the mighty Mekong river ends the 4350km (2700 mile) journey it started in the Tibetan plateau to the south of Ho Chi Minh City. For centuries, theMekong Deltahas been Vietnam’s rice bowl, nurturing a network of sleepy towns and villages on stilts that use the river as their primary water artery for life and trade..
The best way to explore is obviously by taking to the waters, either by cruising overnight on the main channel between Cai Be andCan Thoor by paying the local fisher-folks to take you on the backwaters, where the smaller waterways become so narrow you may come face to face with a heron or two..
Adored by bikers and cyclists alike, the 350km loop betweenHa GiangandDong Vanis spectacular no matter how you tackle it — though peering through the windshield of a local minivan does tune down the majesty of the region’s single file of wavy limestone karsts, infinite river gorges, and misty peaks that separate Vietnam from China..
Planning tip:Don’t rush and take three to five days to bunk down at scenic homestays, visit the H’Mong King Palace and learn about the region’s former days as an opium trading post, and then stop at the 1500m (4921ft) high Ma Pi Leng Pass to take in some of Vietnam’s best scenery..
.
This article was first published September 2021 and updated January 2023.
To help you feel prepared for the Vietnamese food scene we'll cover how, when and where to eat, etiquette dos and don'ts, and what classic regional specialties are a must try. You'll find the best places to eat in every region as well as what to order when you're there and how to eat it..
To help you feel prepared for the Vietnamese food scene we'll cover how, when and where to eat, etiquette dos and don'ts, and what classic regional specialties are a must try. You'll find the best places to eat in every region as well as what to order when you're there and how to eat it..
Sep 13, 2022 • 10 min read.
From immense national parks to cool coastal cities, here are our picks for the best places to visit in Vietnam..
Mar 2, 2022 • 10 min read.
These ten female travelers changed ideas about where it was possible for women to go, and the stories we tell about women's wanderlust..
Jan 25, 2022 • 10 min read.
Hiking through your global travels offers a unique lens into the local ways. Take the long road with these top hikes..
Oct 27, 2021 • 10 min read.
Wuzhizhou Island, Hainan, Silver Beach and other beaches are places for multi-generational family fun. Read more about the best beaches in China..
Sep 26, 2021 • 10 min read.
Both stubbornly traditional and forward-looking, bustling Hanoi often confounds first-time visitors. Here are the top things to do while you're there..
Jan 8, 2021 • 10 min read.
The capture of a female turtle in Vietnam means that at least one male and one female are now known to exist..
Dec 10, 2020 • 10 min read.
Nepal and China have announced a change to the height of the world's highest mountain after surveyors measured it again..
Aug 19, 2020 • 10 min read.
Red Beach in Panjin gets its name from the deep crimson shade the native seepweed turns in September and October..
May 4, 2020 • 10 min read.
Beijing’s parks and museums, including the ancient Forbidden City, reopened after being closed for three months..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Nov 23, 2022•8min read.
Fansipan mountain and other areas throughout Vietnam offer thrilling opportunities for hiking and trekking © Getty Images/iStockphoto.
8 treks for discovering Vietnam’s rural heartlands.
Nov 23, 2022•8min read.
ModernVietnamis a million miles from its war-torn past..
Jungle-cloaked hills that once shook with the sound of combat are now the serene setting for adventurous hikes to remote villages, lofty lookouts, tumbling waterfalls and the summit of Indochina’s highest mountain. With plenty of local guides and trekking agencies on hand to help you to the top of the trails, all you really need to do is pick a route – and set out..
Many of Vietnam’s top hikes are best attempted with local support. The tropical terrain can be challenging, the weather can be unpredictable and you’ll need someone who speaks the local languages to make arrangements for meals and accommodation in hill-tribe communities. If you combine a trek with a village homestay – which we heartily recommend – it’s possible to escape the crowds and find the hospitality and captivating culture that first put Vietnam on the travel map..
With its towering topography, the mountainous north of the country offers the best trekking opportunities, but there are routes all over the country, from the Chinese border to the lowland jungles nearHo Chi Minh City. Here’s our pick of the top treks in Vietnam..
Easiest hikes for beginnersDistances vary, 1–2 days, easy.
Hill-tribe treks fromSapaare a core part of the tourist experience innorthern Vietnam, and hiking here is quite mainstream these days. Still, there are still rewarding experiences to be had if you go with a guide who speaks the languages of local minority groups and can get you acquainted with the diverse communities that French colonizers grouped together under the umbrella term Montagnards (mountain-dwellers)..
Don’t expect to get too far off the beaten track – the most popular villages have entry fees, souvenir shops and a rather entrepreneurial attitude towards tourism. Favor treks to Sin Chai, Cat Cat, Ban Ho, and Y Linh Ho, which will take you away from the heaviest crowds. For a more authentic experience, trek over two days with an overnight stop in a local homestay, or save your trekking for a more remote location such as Bac Ha or Ba Be National Park..
Best treks for tribal encounters7–10km (4–6 miles), 1–3 days, easy to moderate.
Quite howBac Haslipped under the radar as a trekking base is a mystery: the village remains a charmingly unspoiled hub for hikes to the villages of 11 tribal groups, including the Flower Hmong, Dzao, Giay, Han, Xa Fang, Lachi, Nung, Phula, Tay, Thai, and Thulao. To really get a feel for local life, go with a local guide and stay overnight in villages tucked away in the emerald hills..
For an easy day hike, try the 8km (5-mile) hike through the Flower Hmong village of Thai Giang Pho to the Tay village of Na Lo, passing some of the finest rural scenery anywhere in northern Vietnam. For a great overnight route, test your legs on the 10km (6.2-mile) hike through rice paddies, cinnamon forests and misty hills to the Dzao villages of Nam Det and Nam Khanh..
Wherever you trek, aim to be back in Bac Ha by the weekend:the Sunday market in Bac Haandthe Saturday market in nearby Can Cauboth draw tribal people from across the region. There are also markets in the villages of Coc Ly, Lung Phin and Sin Cheng..
Best mountain trek9–20km (5.5–12.5miles), 1–3 days, moderate to difficult.
At 3147m (10,326ft), Vietnam’s highest mountain presents a satisfying challenge – though the paths are rough and regular rain means the going can be slippery underfoot. As you climb the slopes of Fansipan, expect adrenaline-inducing scrambles up steep slopes and gasp-producing views across the Tonkinese Alps when the clouds clear..
The summit of the mountain known as the “roof of Indochina” is most easily reached from the Tram Ton pass on the northern side of the mountain, accessible by local bus from Sapa. There are also challenging alternative trails starting from the villages of Cat Cat and Sin Chai that require camping for one or two nights..
Guides are mandatory – and sensible in this rugged terrain – though some travelers sneak up the trails unaccompanied. Fit trekkers can tackle the Tram Ton trail in a day, returning via thecable caracross the Muong Hoa Valley. Most people cover the ascent over two or three days, camping at rustic sites along the way. With scenery so lovely, why rush the journey?.
Best treks for escaping the crowdsDistances vary, from 1 day, moderate.
Lush, greenBa Be National Parkoffers everything you could ask for from the Vietnamese highlands: limestone peaks climbing out of misty valleys lined with ribbon-like lakes, dense jungles hiding myriad bird, mammal and butterfly species, and a dozen villages populated by the Tay, Dzao and Hmong communities. Best of all though, Ba Be is still largely undiscovered by the masses, even if word is slowly getting out..
Treks here are as they were in Sapa a generation back, offering a deep dive into mountain culture and a way of life that still moves with the rhythms of the seasons. As well as sampling village life, you can drop in on dramatic waterfalls and tortuous cave systems, and stop overnight at quiet homestays overlooking the lakes..
Best island adventure trekDistances vary, 1–2 days, moderate.
The scenery inCat Ba National ParkinHalong Bayis almost impossibly green, with beds of moss and forest glades exhibiting a spectrum of emerald, lime, chartreuse and other hues. And this vivid landscape is best experienced on foot, starting from the park headquarters at Trung Trang. While guides are not obligatory, they’ll help you get closer to the wildlife: be sure to keep an eye out for golden-headed langurs, the world’s most endangered primate..
The “easy” option here is the short, strenuous hike to the top of Ngu Lam peak, a modest ridge offering views over the surrounding jungle, though many opt for the more challenging 9km (5.5-mile) hike across the park to the fishing village of Viet Hai, where you can stop over at a friendly homestay. The park is also a great spot for climbing, with several operators running trips to local karst outcrops with all gear included..
Best trek in southern Vietnam2–26km (1.2–16 miles), 1–3 days, moderate to difficult.
Thesouth of Vietnamis often overlooked by trekkers. Don’t make that mistake..
Cat Tien National Parkcovers 72,000 hectares (177,916 acres) of lowland tropical rainforest that teems with biodiversity. While there are elephants and leopards hiding amid the foliage, you’re more likely to spot primates such as gibbons, pygmy lorises and langurs, alongside reptiles, amphibians and myriad bird species..
Guides can be arranged through local lodges. The most popular trip is the half-day hike from the national park headquarters in search of golden-cheeked gibbons, though this involves an early start to catch the primates’ hooting dawn chorus. Most trekkers drop in on theDao Tien Endangered Primate Species Centrefor more simian encounters; trip fees help fund the park’s conservation activities..
Best easy hikes near Hanoi5–18km (3–11 miles), 1–2 days, easy.
You don’t have to roam far fromHanoito find good hiking terrain. The township ofMai Chaufloats on a green carpet of rice fields, about 135km (84 miles) southwest of the capital. This is pretty rather than challenging terrain, with the most popular destinations for walks villages inhabited by the White Thai. These people are known for their colorful textiles, which you can purchase without too much bargaining..
For a taste of what the area has to offer, try the 18km (11-mile) trek from Ban Lac village to Xa Linh village. A local guide will help you navigate the slippery trail, and you’ll need to arrange a vehicle to meet you at the end of the trail for the trip back to Mai Chau. Longer treks can be arranged through local homestays and lodges, though we recommend coming during the week to avoid the weekend crowds..
Best off-the-beaten-track treksDistances and durations vary, moderate to difficult.
Tucked away near the Chinese border in the farnortheast of Vietnam,Cao Bangis the place to discover rural communities that have so far escaped the influence of mass tourism. This comes with a degree of responsibility, so be sure to trek with a guide and stay in village homestays to make sure your tourist dollars reach the local economy. The main destinations for hikers are hillside villages of the Tay, Nung, Hmong, Dzao and Lolo people, with markets that shift from village to village on different days of the lunar month..
There are easy strolls aroundBan Gioc WaterfallandNguom Ngao Cave– both served by local buses from Cao Bang – but to access outlying villages, you’ll need local support. Most treks are multi-day affairs, and your guide will need to make arrangements for overnight stays. It may be easiest to organize a trek through a reputable agency in Hanoi..
Discover 100 exciting alternative travel experiences where tourists are few and far between. Explore a secret mountainous kingdom in Africa, an underwater museum in Australia, a medieval fairytale town in Europe - and learn how your visit can benefit local communities when you go beyond classic bucket list places with this inspiring travel guide..
Discover 100 exciting alternative travel experiences where tourists are few and far between. Explore a secret mountainous kingdom in Africa, an underwater museum in Australia, a medieval fairytale town in Europe - and learn how your visit can benefit local communities when you go beyond classic bucket list places with this inspiring travel guide..
Jan 8, 2021 • 8 min read.
The capture of a female turtle in Vietnam means that at least one male and one female are now known to exist..
Oct 21, 2020 • 8 min read.
Ready to catch some cosmos? Here are eight of Asia’s best stargazing destinations..
Apr 7, 2020 • 8 min read.
Lonely Planet staffers share some of their favourite memories of the natural world seen on their travels..
Jun 2, 2019 • 8 min read.
The world’s largest cave, Hang Son Doong (Mountain River Cave) in Vietnam, has suddenly become a lot larger thanks to the remarkable discovery of an….
Oct 21, 2018 • 8 min read.
In a move that will delight animal-lovers, one national park in Vietnam has decided to ditch elephant rides in favour of the country’s first ethical….
Apr 24, 2018 • 8 min read.
Jonas Hornehøj (24) was pulling in a monthly salary of around £1300 (US$1800) per month working as a barman in his native Copenhagen when he decided to….
Apr 13, 2017 • 8 min read.
For many of us Mount Everest takes on a kind of mythical quality, destined to remain in the realms of our imaginations. But for this bold traveller, mere….
Mar 21, 2023 • 8 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 20, 2023 • 8 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Oct 14, 2022•12min read.
Be sure to try some street food with in Vietnam © Getty Images/iStockphoto.
What to eat and drink in Vietnam.
Oct 14, 2022•12min read.
The rich and varied cuisine ofVietnamoften sneaks under the radar, but any visitor will tell you that the food here is some of the best in Asia. Vietnam’s chefs look north towards China and west towards Thailand for influences, meeting somewhere in the middle..
The resulting fusion has Southeast Asia’s zeal for herbs and spices, tempered by China’s love of clean, clear flavors. Some of the most popular food and drink in Vietnam also has subtle influences from the country's six decades under French colonial rule. Needless to say, every trip to Vietnam is a feast..
Cookery classes, market visits, and food-themed walking tours make it easy to discover the country's culinary heritage, but street food is where the love affair with Vietnamese food is forged – and where you’ll find the best traditional Vietnamese dishes. Combine snacking on the street with fine dining in restaurants set in imperial-era mansions and French colonial villas in cities such as Hanoi and Hoi An..
Vietnamese food is so much more than the super-popular bowls ofphonoodle soup andbanh misandwiches. Each region has its own specialties based on local produce and local cooking techniques. If you think you know Vietnamese food, head to the tribal communities of the far northwest and you’re sure to find dishes you’ve never encountered before..
Wherever you go, eat like a local and you’ll discover the incredible culinary diversity this country has to offer. Here’s our guide to eating and drinking in Vietnam..
Pho, a satisfying soup made from flat rice noodles (banh pho), broth, herbs, and beef or chicken, was invented in the north of the country, but it spread around the globe as refugees found sanctuary outside Vietnam during the Vietnam War. The exact ingredients vary from region to region and establishment to establishment, but it’s always satisfying, nourishing, and filling..
Favorite seafood soups in Vietnam includebanh canh cua– a rich, thick crab soup with quail eggs and white tapioca noodles – andbun rieu cua, thin rice noodles in a crimson-hued broth made from tomatoes and pulverized crab shells, topped with crab fat that’s sautéed with shallots. In central Vietnam, seek outbun bo Hue, a spicy beef soup made with round, vermicelli-like rice noodles. Further south, the soup to sample isbun mam, a strong fish-flavored rice-noodle broth with tomatoes, pineapple andbac ha– a thick, spongy plant stem..
Where to try it:Find the bestbun bo Huein the country in the eponymous Hue;Quan Bun Bo Hueis a great place to slurp down a bowl, but they usually sell out by the early afternoon..
Rice, orcom, is the bedrock of Vietnamese cooking, and it’s something you’ll be eating every day in one form or another. If a local says,an com(literally, “let’s eat rice”), it’s an invitation to lunch or dinner. Locals knock back rice by the bowlful topped with stir-fried meat, fish, and vegetable dishes at informal eateries known asquan com binh dan..
Rice also forms the basis for the popular breakfastchao(rice porridge), cooked to a soupy state and flavored with savory ingredients such as chicken, fish, eel, duck, or frog. You’ll also find rice fried with egg, vegetables, and other ingredients ascom rang; and "broken" into short grains and steamed ascom tam, best enjoyed withnuoc cham(a dipping sauce of sweetened fish sauce)..
Vietnam’s famously fragrant jasmine rice is the mainstay, but you’ll also find glutinous (sticky) rice, colored white, red, or black. Sticky rice is mixed with pulses, corn, peanuts and sesame seeds to make the breakfast snackxoi(orngoin central Vietnam). Many sweet and savory treats are wrapped in a layer of sticky rice and steamed inside bamboo or banana leaves to make portable snacks..
More unusual rice-based dishes includebanh can, which are tiny, waffle-like rice pancakes. Also, there arebanh trang tron(literally, “mixed rice paper”), a student favorite made from a tantalizing blend of dry rice paper, shredded green mango, quail’s eggs, dried shrimp, fresh herbs, crispy shallots, and roasted peanuts. It’s tossed in a dressing of soy sauce, sate sauce, and kumquat juice..
Another treat isbanh beo, steamed rice cakes topped with dried shrimp, green onion oil, and buttery croutons, with a fish sauce dressing (often sold by vendors who carry their wares on a traditional yoke). King of the rice pancakes in Vietnam isbanh xeo, a crispy, savory delicacy made with rice flour and turmeric powder, stuffed with pork, prawns, and bean sprouts;banh khoai, the version served in Hue, is famous countrywide..
Where to try it:Huemakes the best rice pancakes in the country and a great place to find them isHanh Restauranton Pho Duc Chinh Street, where thebanh khoaiare crisp and delicious..
Rice noodles are another cornerstone of Vietnamese cooking, and they crop up in everything from soups to stir fries. Characteristic central Vietnamese noodle dishes include hot or coldbun(vermicelli noodles) andmy quang– pink or yellow-tinted rice noodles topped with pork, shrimp, slivered banana blossoms, herbs, and chopped peanuts, eaten with rice crackers and sweet chili jam..
InHoi An, where many visitors learn to cook Vietnamese food, look out forcao lau, made with thick, rough-textured noodles reputedly inspired by the soba noodles brought here by Japanese traders. Further south, enjoy the clean flavors of cold salad noodle dishes such asbun thit nuong– grilled pork, fresh basil and mint and other sundries served over bun noodles and dressed withnuoc mamfish sauce..
Keep an eye out forbanh hoi, very thin rice-flour noodles that are formed into delicate nests and eaten rolled with grilled meat in leafy greens. You’ll also find familiar, Chinese-style egg noodles (mi) in soups and stir-fries, and various soups and salads made with transparent bean-thread noodles, made from mung-bean starch..
Where to try it:You can’t avoid noodles in Vietnam – indeed, you may end up eating them for breakfast, lunch, and dinner!.
Spring rolls – an umbrella term for various stuffings rolled inside rice paper shells – take a delectable variety of forms in Vietnam. You’ll find them crispy and fried in the north asnem ran ha noi. In the southgoi cuonare soft and light, stuffed with shrimp, pork, fresh vegetables, and coldbunnoodles..
Also look out for deliciousbanh cuon– rolls of steam rice paper stuffed with morsels of pork and wood ear mushroom – and street food carts sellingbo pia, thin rice-paper tubes filled with slices of Chinese sausage, dried shrimp, cooked jicama root, lettuce and chili paste. Hue has its own version of the spring roll, filled with sweet potato, pork, crunchy pickled prawns, water spinach, and herbs..
Where to try it:The best introduction to Vietnamese-style spring rolls is to learn to make them yourself on a cooking course in Hoi An. Schools such asRed Bridge Cooking Schoolwill walk you through the steps, including the delicate art of preparing your own rice paper wrappers..
Grilled meat – most commonly pork or chicken – is typically served withbunnoodles and dipped in sweetenednuoc mamsauce. This delicious sauce also serves as a marinade for the grilled pork stuffed into breakfast sandwiches and spooned over broken rice. Chicken is another staple protein, and common in stir-fries with chili and lemongrass, or skewered and grilled and served with a sauce made from peanuts and chicken liver..
Beef is worth wolfing down where you find it. Make space forthit bo bit tet(pan-seared beefsteak), and “shaking beef” –thit bo luc lac– seared in a pan with soy sauce, oyster sauce, fish sauce, oil, and black pepper. Then there’s the otherworldly flavor ofbola lot– seasoned beef mince rolled into cylinders and grilled inside betel leaves..
In the north, track downtre thit nuong ong tre, a theatrical dish from the northern highlands, made from wild boar marinated in mountain herbs, stuffed inside a piece of bamboo, and grilled. Slice open the bamboo and inhale the amazing cloud of steam before eating with sticky rice. Don’t overlook Vietnamese sausages, from grillednem nuongto the mortadella-likecha lua, made from pork steamed inside a banana leaf wrapper..
Where to try it:Served over thread-likebunnoodles,bun chais made from artfully seasoned barbecued pork patties; enjoy it at its best atBun Cha 34inHanoi..
Chinese-stylebao– steamed rice-flour buns with a savory filling – are as popular in Vietnam’s best restaurants as they are on the street. More expensive ones will have a hard-boiled chicken or quail egg inside, but remember to remove the paper from the bottom before eating. Another favorite treat isha cao– delicate, dim sum-like dumplings stuffed with shrimp, pork, or chives. You’ll spot the places sellingbaoandha caofrom a distance because of the clouds of steam..
Of course, the bread everyone is talking about is of coursebanh mi, a short baguette introduced by the French that forms the basis for portable breakfasts and lunches. Common fillings include chicken liver pate, grilled meats, pork meatballs, and cold cuts, often joined by pickled vegetables and various sauces (including mayo, another French contribution). You can even find veganbanh mi chay(with tofu) during the Buddhist full and half-moon celebrations..
Where to try it:Everyone has their own favorite banh mi place; we rate Hoi An’sBanh Mi Phuongand Ho Chi Minh City’sBanh Mi Huynh Hoa, both thronged by locals..
Besides Vietnam’s extensive coastline, there are endless miles of waterways inland, ensuring that fish, mollusks, and crustaceans are on menus everywhere. The ocean delivers generous catches of tuna, pomfret, red snapper, and sea bass, as well as prawns, lobster, crab, and clams. In Vietnam, seafood restaurants always keep their catch live in tanks or bowls, so you can be assured it's fresh, though it can be disconcerting to walk to your table under the watchful eye of a thousand prawns unaware of their future as a starter..
Freshwater treats include well-lovedca loc(snakehead fish), enormous catfish, and the tiny crabs and shrimps that are pounded into salads and dried to sprinkle on rice dishes and soups. The paddies also yield golf-ball-sized snails calledoc, served in soups, chopped with lemongrass and herbs, or steamed like French escargot, with a length of lemongrass leaf protruding from each snail shell – give it a tug to pull out the meat.Where to find it:Ho Chi Minh city’sOc Dao 2in District 4 is a great place for a first taste of Vietnamese snails, served here in coconut milk. For seafood, graze on everything from grilled prawns to oysters inPhu Quoc’s busy night market..
Vietnam has a lively drinking culture and a long history of fermenting and distilling – but drinking and eating are usually separate activities. Beer drinking became hugely popular under French rule, and today, each region of the country produces its own lager beers, with Bia Saigon and 333 dominating the south, Huda selling well in Central Vietnam, and Bia Hanoi being the default in the north..
Vietnamese spirits range from the quaffable to the extreme. Ruou (rice wine) is the spirit of choice, made from either conventional rice or sticky rice, and it also forms the basis forruou thuoc, a broad family of medicinal spirits flavored with everything from herbs and spices to venomous snakes, scorpions, and mice..
You’ll also find all manner of local and imported whiskies and rums, and home-grown wines from the hills around Dalat or the lowland vineyards of Thap Cham in the south. For alcohol avoiders, fruit juices (includingnuoc mia– sugarcane juice), French-style coffee, and tea are also popular..
Where to try it:In Hanoi, be sure to sample bia hoi – a crisp, clean-tasting low-alcohol draft beer – at Bia Hoi Corner, at the junction of Luong Ngoc Quyen Street and Ta Hien Street..
The good news is that there is now more choice than ever before when it comes to vegetarian dining in Vietnam. There are Buddhist-run vegetariancom chayestablishments in most towns, usually near Buddhist temples, or in city centers. Many use "mock meat", tofu and gluten, to create meat-like vegan dishes that can be delicious, though these places are often only open for lunch..
In keeping with Buddhist precepts, many vendors and eateries go vegetarian on the 1st and 15th days of each lunar month; this is a great time to scour the markets and sample dishes that would otherwise be off-limits. Otherwise, be wary. Even vegetable dishes are likely to have been cooked with fish sauce or shrimp paste, so it can be easier to say that you are a vegetarian Buddhist to a potential cook, even if you aren't, as most Vietnamese people will understand what this means..
Between 19 January and 20 FebruaryTet (Vietnamese New Year) is a week of feasting with friends and family. Traditional dishes includebanh tet(sticky rice with pork and egg) andmut(dried and sugared fruits)..
March to JuneLuscious mangoes come ripe in Cao Lanh in the Mekong Delta..
Mid-June to early JulyFresh lychees are sold across northern Vietnam..
June to JulyFragrant – or should that be pungent – durian is in season across the Mekong..
May to OctoberFresh rambutans are popular during the rainy season..
August to NovemberGrapefruit-like pomelos fill the markets of central Vietnam..
Between 8 September and 7 OctoberTraditional moon cakes are eaten during Tet Trung Thu, the annual Full Moon Festival..
This article was first published June 2021 and updated October 2022.
To help you feel prepared for the Vietnamese food scene we'll cover how, when and where to eat, etiquette dos and don'ts and what classic regional specialties are a must try. You'll find the best places to eat in every region as well as what to order when you're there and how to eat it..
To help you feel prepared for the Vietnamese food scene we'll cover how, when and where to eat, etiquette dos and don'ts and what classic regional specialties are a must try. You'll find the best places to eat in every region as well as what to order when you're there and how to eat it..
Dec 13, 2019 • 12 min read.
Chicago’s first full-service board game café will open in January, with the creators of Cards Against Humanity behind the enterprise..
Mar 15, 2019 • 12 min read.
What we eat, how we eat it and what we learn about the local culture when we do so is such a key part of the travel experience – and it’s no different….
Jun 8, 2018 • 12 min read.
As Vietnam’s most populous city with many universities, businesses and modern conveniences, Ho Chi Minh City draws people from all over the country, many….
Mar 1, 2018 • 12 min read.
From detoxifying buddha bowls to artfully-layered, deconstructed burritos, bowl foods have come along way since soups and stews were the stock options….
Feb 9, 2017 • 12 min read.
Cheap. Tasty. A traveller staple. Noodles claim their place on menus the world over and chances are you’ve had some recently – whether hot or cold, sauced….
Oct 12, 2016 • 12 min read.
Whether we realise it or not, food is one of the key ways in which we experience a place when travelling. That secret locals' tapas bar you stumbled….
May 2, 2016 • 12 min read.
There’s no better way to get under the skin of a destination than to gorge on local food. And markets provide an unrivalled way to eat stunning,….
Mar 18, 2013 • 12 min read.
Climb aboard the food trend train: what’s cool today will be passé tomorrow. New food trends arrive on the scene every year, whether you’re ready for them….
Mar 18, 2012 • 12 min read.
Lunch tastes best from a curb-side cart: grab your fork or simply use your fingers, and munch your way through the world’s best street eats. This tempting….
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Sep 13, 2022•7min read.
People flock to Vietnam's top beaches, like Phú Quốc, during July and August © Andrea Pistolesi / Getty.
When to go to Vietnam.
Sep 13, 2022•7min read.
Vietnambeckons in any season, but picking the optimum time for a visit comes down to what you crave from a trip most: optimum beach weather? Cultural festivals? Fewer tourist crowds? A combination of all three?.
To help you choose the best time to book your flights, here’s our guide on when to visit Vietnam..
Best time to go for beach lovers.
July and August are the busiest months to visit Vietnam, with prices increasing by up to 50% by the coast; book hotels well in advance. The whole country, except the far north, is hot and humid, punctuated by spectacular summer monsoon downpours..
The best beaches in Vietnam.
Best time to go for visiting Hanoi and HCMC.
Winter in Vietnam tends to be drier than the summer months, but also colder. Expect chilly conditions in the north, but in the far south, clear skies and sunshine are the norm..
If big cities are your thing, shoulder season is a pleasant time to be in both Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, with reliable weather and good temperatures. Although, during the Tet festival (late January or early February), the whole country is on the move and hotel prices rise..
Vietnam tips: a first-timer's guide.
Best time to go for exploring the whole country.
Low season in Vietnam falls on the transition period from winter to summer and summer to winter, offering unsettled weather that can provide glorious days of sunshine, but also days of rain. It’s a great time to visit for those who want to avoid tourist crowds, or those looking to tour the whole country (with weather not notably awful anywhere)..
This is also a good time to tourHalong Bay, with weather relatively reliable in this region during these months, particularly October and November..
Here's a monthly guide to what you can expect throughout the year in Vietnam. All events are subject to change..
How to get around in Vietnam.
Winter temperatures can be bitterly cold in the far north, with snow possible. The further south you go, the milder the weather. Providing a dose of winter cheer, the Dalat Flower Festival, held early in the month, is always a wonderful occasion with huge elaborate displays, music, fashion shows and a wine festival.Key events:Dalat Flower Festival.
North of Danang, chilly ‘Chinese winds’ usually mean grey, overcast conditions. Conversely, sunny hot days are the norm in the southern provinces. February also welcomes Tết, the Vietnamese New Year. Travel is difficult at this time, as transport is booked up and many businesses close. Tết can also sometimes fall in late January.Key events:Tết (Tết Nguyen Dan).
A guide to Ho Chi Minh City for digital nomads.
Grey skies and cool temperatures can affect anywhere north ofHội An, but towards the end of the month the thermometer starts to rise. Down south, the dry season is ending. Caffeine cravers should make for the highlands during March, asBuôn Ma Thuộtplays host to an annual coffee festival. Growers, grinders, blenders and addicts rub shoulders in the city’s main park, and local entertainment is provided.Key events:Buon Ma Thuot Coffee Festival.
Vietnam’s 10 best natural wonders.
Generally an excellent time to cover the nation, as the winter rainy season should have subsided and there are some excellent festivals on offer. Enjoy a smorgasbord of art, theatre, music, circus and dance performances at Hue Festival, held every two years in the city’s Citadel, or observe the somber traditions of Thanh Minh (Holiday of the Dead), where ancestors are honored and offerings placed on graves and spiritual sights throughout the country.Key events:Hue Festival; Thanh Minh.
A fine time to tour the center and north of Vietnam, with a good chance of clear skies and warm days. Sea temperatures are warming up nicely and it’s a pretty quiet month for tourism. Things do get notably louder, however, during Phóng Sinh, which marks Buddha’s Birth, Enlightenment and Death with lively street processions, as well as lanterns being hung on pagodas. Complexes includingChua Bai DinhnearNinh BinhandHCMC’sJade Emperor Pagodahost lavish celebrations.Key events:Phong Sinh.
A great time to tour Vietnam as it’s just before the peak domestic season. Humidity can be punishing at this time of year, so plan to spend some time by the coast. Celebrated biannually in early June, Nha Trang Sea Festival whips the city into a frenzy with a street festival, photography exhibitions, sports events, embroidery displays and kite-flying competitions.Key events:Nha Trang Sea Festival.
The most unusual foods to try in Vietnam.
July marks the beginning of high season, expect accommodation prices to rise and crowds to thicken (especially in coastal hotspots). Along with the balmy coastal weather, the Danang International Fireworks Festival adds another reason to visit this month, with fantastic pyrotechnic shows taking place inDanangduring five weekends in late June and early July.Key events:Danang International Fireworks Festival.
Top 10 best places to visit in Vietnam.
The peak month for tourism with domestic and international tourists. Book flights and accommodation well ahead. Prices rise and beaches are busy. Weather-wise it’s hot, hot, hot. Cultural festivals this month include Trung Nguyen, an ancient Vietnamese tradition where huge spreads of food are left out for ‘wandering spirits’ and the Children’s (or Mid-Autumn) Festival, a big event in Hội An andHanoi, when citizens (especially children) celebrate the full moon by eating moon cakes and undertaking colorful dance processions.Key events:Trung Nguyen (Wandering Souls Day); Children’s Festival.
September marks the start of Vietnam’s second annual low season and is an excellent time to tour the whole nation. The coastal resorts are less crowded and there are fewer people on the move. Temperatures and humidity levels drop too. Big parades and events are held across Vietnam on September 2 for Vietnam National Day. Celebrations are particularly fervent in Hanoi, with a rally and fireworks at Ba Dinh Square (in front ofHo Chi Minh’s Mausoleum) and boat races onHoan Kiem Lake. Hanoi Pride also comes to town towards the end of the month, adding to the September festivities.Key events:Vietnam National Day; Hanoi Pride.
The 8 best national parks in Vietnam.
A good time to visit the far north, with a strong chance of clear skies and mild temperatures that are good for hiking. Winter winds and rain begin to affect the center, but down south it’s often dry. Wherever you end up, you’ll likely be able to tuck into a moon cake or two as part of Trung Thu (Mid-Autumn Festival), which sees locals across the country eating the delicacies, filled with lotus seeds, watermelon seeds, peanuts, yolks of duck eggs, raisins and other treats. The festival sometimes falls in September.Key events:Trung Thu.
A fine time to visit HCMC,Mũi Né, theMekong Deltaand offshore islands such asPhú Quốcas sunny skies are the norm. However, in the center and north it can be cool and rainy (though Hanoi is often dry and sunny). Another reason to head south is to witness the Khmer Ok Om Bok Festival, which the Mekong Delta’s Khmer community celebrates with colorful boat races at Ba Dong Beach inTrà Vinhprovince and on the Soc Trang River. The festival sometimes falls in late October.Key events:Khmer Ok Om Bok Festival.
The month begins quietly, but from mid-December the popular tourist resorts get increasingly busy. Book well ahead to secure a room over the Christmas break. The weather is steamy in the south but can get chilly up north. Though not a national holiday, Christmas Day is celebrated throughout Vietnam, particularly by the sizable Catholic population. It’s a special time to be in places such as Phát Diệm and HCMC, where thousands attend midnight Mass.Key events:Lễ Giáng sinh (Christmas Day).
The 7 best road trips in Vietnam weave past mountains, jungles and beaches.
This article was first published June 2021 and updated September 2022.
Lonely Planet's Experience Vietnam is your guide to unforgettable experiences and local surprises. Discover Hanoi's coffee and cafe scene, adventure into the caves of Phong Nha, and rummage through HCMC's Cholon district - all guided by local experts with fresh perspectives..
.
Lonely Planet's Experience Vietnam is your guide to unforgettable experiences and local surprises. Discover Hanoi's coffee and cafe scene, adventure into the caves of Phong Nha, and rummage through HCMC's Cholon district - all guided by local experts with fresh perspectives..
.
Feb 27, 2022 • 7 min read.
From what to pack to social etiquette, here is everything you need to know before visiting Malaysia..
Mar 25, 2021 • 7 min read.
We round up the need-to-know info about tourist visas for Vietnam, including where to get them and how much they cost..
Feb 8, 2021 • 7 min read.
Many of the celebrations for the Lunar New Year are taking place virtually this year..
May 23, 2023 • 7 min read.
From cutting through the countryside to connecting two cities, these 8 railway journeys offer an entirely new perspective on a destination..
Jan 20, 2023 • 7 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 6, 2023 • 7 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Jan 3, 2023 • 7 min read.
It’s been a tough few years for travelers, which is why we’re taking inspiration from these 10 travel ideas for our 2023 trips..
Dec 26, 2022 • 7 min read.
Peace, quiet and the freshest of air: these are some of the most unique and exciting destinations to get off-grid..
Sep 13, 2022 • 7 min read.
From immense national parks to cool coastal cities, here are our picks for the best places to visit in Vietnam..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Sep 13, 2022•6min read.
Some places, like Hội An, are essential stops on any tour of Vietnam © Judyta Jastrzebska / Shutterstock.
Top 10 best places to visit in Vietnam.
Sep 13, 2022•6min read.
With its dizzying metropolises, blissful islands and immense national parks (not to mention a legendary cuisine!),Vietnamtops many travelers’ bucket lists..
The highlights of the country are innumerable, but there are some spots that simply can’t be skipped..
Here’s our list of the top places to visit in Vietnam..
Halong Bay’s stunning combination of karst limestone peaks and sheltered, shimmering seas is one of Vietnam’s top tourist draws. But with more than 2000 islands, there’s plenty of superb scenery to go around. Definitely book an overnight cruise and make time for your own special moments on this World Heritage wonder – rise early for an ethereal misty dawn, or pilot a kayak into grottoes and lagoons. Prefer your karst landscapes a little less crowded? Try the less touristy but equally spectacularLan Ha Bay, located a little way to the south, orBai Tu Long, to the north..
How to get around in Vietnam.
Vietnam’s headline natural wonder is the jaw-droppingHang Son Doong, one of the world's largest caves, located in the heart ofPhong Nha–Kẻ Bàng National Park. The images of ant-like travelers shining head torches around the vast, empty caverns tug on the wanderlust strings; however, unless you have a cool $3000 to spend on a tour, you won’t be able to enter this subterranean marvel. But fear not because Phong Nha-Ke Bang has a wealth of other caves that you can clamber, crawl, boat or zipline through for a fraction of the cost, includingHang Én, which boasts its own beach. More so, there are plenty of attractions above ground, including guided treks around the oldest karst mountains in Asia, home to tigers, elephants and 300 species of bird..
Vietnam’s 10 best natural wonders.
Increasingly international but still unmistakable Vietnamese, former Saigon has visceral energy that will delight big-city devotees.HCMCdoesn’t inspire neutrality: you’ll either be drawn into its thrilling vortex and hypnotized by the perpetual whir of its orbiting motorbikes, or you’ll find the whole experience overwhelming (and some visitors seem to be perpetually seesawing between the two). Dive in and you’ll be rewarded with a wealth of history (theWar Remnants Museumis an essential stop), delicious food and a vibrant nightlife that ranges from beers on street corners to swanky cocktail lounges. The heat is always on in Saigon; loosen your collar and enjoy..
The 7 best road trips in Vietnam weave past mountains, jungles and beaches.
Lapped by azure waters and edged with the kind of white-sand beaches that make sun-seekers sink to their weak knees,Phú Quốc– way down in the south of Vietnam – is ideal for slipping into low gear, reaching for a seaside cocktail and toasting a copper sun as it dips into the sea. And if you want to notch it up a tad, grab a bike and hit the red-dirt roads: the island is relatively compact, and offers areas of natural, unblemished jungle alongside some newer, less-serene additions (a Vietnamese version of Disneyland and the world's longest over-sea cable car as two examples)..
A guide to Ho Chi Minh City for digital nomads.
Vietnam’s capital is a city with one foot buried in a fascinating past, while the other strides confidently toward tomorrow. SampleHanoi’s heady mix of history and ambition by wandering the streets of the Old Quarter, sipping an egg coffee (coffee prepared with egg yolks) or slurping on a hearty bowl ofbun rieu cua(a sour crab noodle soup) while watching businessmen eat noodle breakfasts or play chess with goateed grandfathers. When you’re done, check out the crumbling decadence of the French Quarter then zip up the cosmopolitan Tay Ho for fine dining options and the lowdown on Hanoi’s growing art scene..
The 8 best national parks in Vietnam.
HistoricHội Anis Vietnam’s most atmospheric and charming town. Once a major port, it boasts the grand architecture and beguiling riverside setting that befit its heritage. The face of the Old Town has preserved its incredible legacy of tottering Japanese merchant houses, elaborate Chinese guildhalls and ancient tea warehouses – though, of course, residents and rice fields have been gradually replaced by tourist businesses. Lounge bars, boutique hotels, travel agents, a glut of tailor shops and vast numbers of daily tourists are very much part of the scene here. If it gets too much, hop on a bike to explore the town’s outskirts and pristine surroundings, where you’ll find that life moves at a much more sedate pace..
Top 10 best places to visit in Vietnam.
Detour off the regular Vietnam tourist trail inBa Be National Park, an essential destination for adventurous travelers. The scenery here swoops from limestone mountains peaking at 1554m down into plunging valleys wrapped in dense evergreen forests, speckled with waterfalls and lakes. The park is a haven for hundreds of wildlife species, including monkeys, bears and pangolins (the only mammals wholly-covered in scales) as well as the highly endangered Vietnamese salamander, while birders will want to keep an eye out for the spectacular crested serpent eagle and the oriental honey buzzard, which can be spied on boat trips or trekking excursions. After a day of animal-spotting, recharge in rustic homestays and village guesthouses of the local Tay ethnic minority..
When to go to Vietnam.
The high-rise, high-energy beach resort ofNha Trangenjoys a stunning setting: it's ringed by a necklace of hills, with a turquoise bay dotted with tropical islands. A sweeping crescent beach of white sand defines the shoreline, backed by an impressive promenade dotted with parks and sculpture gardens. Inland there's a cosmopolitan array of boutiques and dining options, but as restaurant service winds down for the evening, nightlife cranks up – central Nha Trang is a party town at heart. Looking for a more tranquil vibe? The city also makes for a great launching pad for a beach crawl up the coast to the city ofQuy Nhon, with stops at Doc Let,Bai Bauand Bai Xep..
How to get around in Vietnam.
The capital of the nation in the 19th and early 20th centuries,Huếis perhaps the easiest Vietnamese city to love and spend time in. Its situation on the banks of the Perfume River is sublime, its complex cuisine is justifiably famous, and its streets are relatively traffic-free. And that’s without mentioning the majesty of theImperial City, a citadel within a citadel, housing the emperor’s residence, temples and palaces, and the main buildings of state, within six-meter-high, 2.5km-long walls. Explore the city’s fringes to find some of Vietnam’s most impressive pagodas and royal tombs, many in wonderful natural settings..
Vietnam tips: a first-timer's guide.
Hà Giang provinceis Vietnam’s spectacular destination for intrepid cyclists, with dizzying ascents up the Quan Ba Pass (Heaven’s Gate), jaw-dropping vistas on the epic ride betweenDong VanandMeo Vacand the opportunity to venture toLung Cu, a hilltop flag tower that marks the most northern point of the country. And with improved roads, new trekking routes, and a wider choice of guesthouses, homestays and restaurants in the province’s small towns and villages, Vietnam’s far north is firmly planting itself on the travel map as a hotspot for cyclists and non-cyclists alike..
Vietnam’s 10 best natural wonders.
This article was first published April 2021 and updated September 2022.
Get ready for a journey through every country in the world. This fourth edition of The Travel Book features incredible photography that illustrates each country, accompanied by a profile that includes details of when to visit, what to see and do and how to learn more about the country’s culture..
.
Get ready for a journey through every country in the world. This fourth edition of The Travel Book features incredible photography that illustrates each country, accompanied by a profile that includes details of when to visit, what to see and do and how to learn more about the country’s culture..
.
Sep 26, 2021 • 6 min read.
Both stubbornly traditional and forward-looking, bustling Hanoi often confounds first-time visitors. Here are the top things to do while you're there..
Jan 8, 2021 • 6 min read.
The capture of a female turtle in Vietnam means that at least one male and one female are now known to exist..
Oct 21, 2018 • 6 min read.
In a move that will delight animal-lovers, one national park in Vietnam has decided to ditch elephant rides in favour of the country’s first ethical….
Jun 27, 2012 • 6 min read.
Boats are often overlooked as a way to see the world; we invariably have limited time to get from A to Z so we fly, missing B to Y. In a lot of cases,….
Mar 21, 2023 • 6 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 20, 2023 • 6 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 6, 2023 • 6 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Dec 26, 2022 • 6 min read.
Peace, quiet and the freshest of air: these are some of the most unique and exciting destinations to get off-grid..
Nov 23, 2022 • 6 min read.
Here are eight hikes that showcase the stunning landscapes and enchanting villages of Vietnam..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Mar 31, 2022•6min read.
From vast cave systems to hikes through tropical jungles, here are Vietnam's best national parks © kid315 / Shutterstock.
The 8 best national parks in Vietnam: remarkable caves, gorgeous beaches, and rare wildlife.
Mar 31, 2022•6min read.
You can’t visitVietnamwithout going a little wild. Though its two powerhouse cities –HanoiandHo Chi Minh City– draw plaudits for their awe-striking museums, enlightening historical monuments, andseam-splitting food scenes, the country really sparkles when you step into one of its national parks..
These vast green spaces (there are 33 of them in total) are home to gargantuan caves, dramatic limestone mountains, golden coastlines, and dense thickets of jungle where gibbons dangle from vines and the promise of adventure lurks behind every mangrove tree. Here’s our pick of the best national parks to visit in Vietnam..
One of the outstanding natural treasures of southern Vietnam, the 72,000-hectareCat Tien National Parkcomprises an amazingly biodiverse region of lowland tropical rainforest, and the hiking, mountain-biking and bird-watching here are some of the best in the country..
Bear in mind that visitors rarely see the park's larger animals (like elephants and leopards), which live deep in the jungle, but you have a good chance of spotting primates such as pygmy lorises and langurs monkeys, as well as gibbons (which are the focus of early-morning guided tours). Birdlife includes rare species such as the orange-necked partridge and Siamese fireback. Like most parks on this list, Cat Tien tends to get busy during weekends and public holidays – visit during the week for a more serene experience..
With jagged hills shrouded in rainforest, and mountain rivers coursing through impressive ravines, above ground thePhong Nha-Ke Bangregion is one of Vietnam's most spectacular national parks..
Head underground for even more proof that this area should be part of any Vietnamese itinerary. Fortunate travelers (witha cool $3000 to spare) can experience the cathedral-like chambers ofHang Son Doong, one of the world's largest caves, on a four-day expedition. More affordable multi-day tours include other caves for a fraction of the cost, such as the vastHang En, which boasts its own beach..
Established in 1962, this national park, three hours south of Hanoi, is one of Vietnam’s most important protected areas. Though wildlife has suffered a precipitous decline in Vietnam in recent decades, the park’s 222 sq km (86 sq mile) of primary tropical forest remains home to an amazing variety of animal and plant life: 336 species of bird, 135 species of mammal, 122 species of reptile, 2000 plant species and counting..
Hiking is the name of the game here. Short walks include a 220-step trail up to the Cave of Prehistoric Man, where human graves and tools were found that date back 7500 years, making it one of Vietnam's oldest sites of human habitation. Longer undertakings, meanwhile, include a strenuous 15km (9 mile, approximately five-hour) hike to Kanh, a Muong village, where you can stay overnight with local families and raft on the Buoi River..
Despite ongoing development to the island (including, but not limited to, an international airport, aVietnamese version of Disneylandand the world's longest over-sea cable car), nearly three quarters ofPhu Quocis forested, and the trees and adjoining marine environment enjoy official protection as a Unesco Biosphere Reserve..
Arguably the biggest draw here are the park’s picturesque beaches (ranking amongthe best beaches in Vietnam), where visitors can laze on golden sands or snorkel above stunning coral reefs. But in-land there are pagodas, temples, and waterfalls to be uncovered, entangled in the thick jungle. The best way to explore is by motorbike or mountain bike that can tackle the bumpy dirt roads that cut through the park..
The spectacular islands ofBai Tu Long Bay, immediately northeast ofHalong Bay, form Bai Tu Long National Park, a protected area that is every bit as beautiful as its glamorous, world-famous neighbor to the south. Despite this, Bai Tu Long manages to fly somewhat under the radar, remaining far quieter, less polluted, and relatively undeveloped by comparison..
As with Halong Bay, the best way to experience the full limestone-pinnacle-scattered seascape is on an overnight cruise, where passengers can hop off to sun themselves on one of the island beaches, take to the calm blue waters in a kayak or simply sit up on deck with a cold beer and watch the sun slip beneath the bay – possibly the most leisurely way to explore a national park..
Detour off the regular Vietnam tourist trail inBa Be National Park. Located in the far north of the country, it’s an essential destination for adventurous travelers, with towering limestone mountains, plunging valleys, and evergreen forests..
Waterfalls, caves, and lakes combine in a landscape that sustains over 550 different plants and hundreds of different bird and animal species. Explore Ba Be’s natural spectacle by boat or on trekking and mountain-biking excursions, before relaxing and recharging in the rustic homestays and village guesthouses of the local Tay ethnic minority..
Cat Ba Island's beautifulnational parkis home to 32 species of mammal, including most of the world's 65 remaining golden-headed langurs, the world's most endangered primate. There are some good hiking trails here, including the short but strenuous hike to the top of Ngu Lam peak, which offers dramatic views over the surrounding jungle, as well as the challenging 9km (5.5 mile) hiking trail through the park to the village of Viet Hai – best done with a guide. Lunch and homestays are available in Viet Hai..
Of the mammals present in the park, the more commonly seen include macaques, deer, civets and several species of squirrel, including the giant black squirrel. Seventy bird species have been spotted here, including hawks, hornbills, and cuckoos..
A French-era hill station, this national park reaches a peak of 1450m (4757ft) at Bach Ma mountain, only 18km (11 miles) from the coast. The cool climate attracted the French, who built over a hundred villas here (many of which were destroyed in the Resistance War Against America that scarred this region)..
Today the national park stretches from the coast to the Annamite mountain range at theLaosborder, and is easily explored as a day trip from the popular tourist towns ofHueorDanang. More than 1400 species of plants, including rare ferns and orchids, have been discovered in Bach Ma, representing a fifth of the flora of Vietnam. As for wildlife, there are 132 kinds of mammals (three of which, the antelope-like saola, and deer-resembling Truong Son muntjac and the giant muntjac, were only discovered in the 1990s), and nine species of primates, including small numbers of the incredible-looking (and incredibly-rare) red-shanked Douc langur. There are also some nice hikes to scenic viewpoints to tackle, plus some waterfalls for swimming. Unexploded ordnance is still around, so ensure you stick to the trails..
You might also like:How to get around in Vietnam: all the transport options for the perfect trip15 incredible things to do in VietnamWhen to go to Vietnam.
This article was first published March 2021 and updated March 2022.
Make the most of your time in Vietnam with Lonely Planet’s range of travel guides and phrasebooks. Be the architect of your own trip as you discover the best things to do in Vietnam through insider tips, suggested itineraries and handy maps..
Make the most of your time in Vietnam with Lonely Planet’s range of travel guides and phrasebooks. Be the architect of your own trip as you discover the best things to do in Vietnam through insider tips, suggested itineraries and handy maps..
Jan 8, 2021 • 6 min read.
The capture of a female turtle in Vietnam means that at least one male and one female are now known to exist..
Oct 21, 2020 • 6 min read.
Ready to catch some cosmos? Here are eight of Asia’s best stargazing destinations..
Apr 7, 2020 • 6 min read.
Lonely Planet staffers share some of their favourite memories of the natural world seen on their travels..
Oct 21, 2018 • 6 min read.
In a move that will delight animal-lovers, one national park in Vietnam has decided to ditch elephant rides in favour of the country’s first ethical….
Apr 5, 2023 • 6 min read.
A lot changed in China during three years of COVID lockdowns. Now that they’ve been lifted, here are some of the most exciting new things to do..
Mar 21, 2023 • 6 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 20, 2023 • 6 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 6, 2023 • 6 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Dec 26, 2022 • 6 min read.
Peace, quiet and the freshest of air: these are some of the most unique and exciting destinations to get off-grid..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Nov 26, 2021•9min read.
From bike to bus, this guide to transportation in Vietnam can help you plan your trip © Efired / Shutterstock.
How to get around in Vietnam: all the transport options for the perfect trip.
Nov 26, 2021•9min read.
Long, thin and bookended by two superb cities that form natural points of entry,Vietnamis perhaps one of the easiest countries to plan an itinerary for. Travelers tend to either arrive inHanoiin the north and work their way down toHo Chi Minh City, or do the opposite, traveling through the country on a patchwork of buses or via its wonderful train line that hugs the coastline..
The more adventurous point motorbikes in the direction of the country’s lesser-visited interior or hop on a ferry to a faraway, pristine island. Whichever route you plan to take around the country, here’s our guide to getting around Vietnam..
For first-time visitors looking to tick off some ofVietnam’s most popular cities and townsthere’s no better way to navigate the country than by train. The main line weaves along the coast from HCMC to Hanoi stopping almost everywhere you’d want it to..
Trains classified as SE are the smartest and fastest, while those referred to as TN are slower and older. There are four main ticket classes on trains. Increasing in price (and comfort), these are: hard seat, soft seat, hard sleeper and soft sleeper. These classes are also usually split into air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned options..
A hard sleeper has three tiers of beds (six beds per compartment), with the upper berth cheapest and the lower berth most expensive. Most soft sleepers have two tiers (four beds per compartment) and all bunks are priced the same. Soft seats are comfortable chairs that recline, usually arranged in rows of four with two chairs on either side of the aisle. Hard seats are essentially wooden benches; expect these carriages to be busy with a fair bit of cigarette smoke. Some trains now have Wi-Fi (though connection speeds, much like Vietnamese trains themselves, are not the fastest)..
Fares are affordable and vary depending on route, class, and train type. Multiple trains ply the HCMC to Hanoi line in both directions each day. When it comes to booking, tickets can be bought at railway stations a couple of days in advance of travel, or online 60 to 90 days in advance. When booking online most travelers useBao Lau, which is both simple and reliable. You can also use theofficial Vietnam Railways website, but only if you have a Vietnamese credit card..
Aside from the main HCMC–Hanoi run, three rail-spur lines link Hanoi with the other parts of northern Vietnam: one runs east to the port city ofHaiphong(for excursions aroundHalong Bay); a second heads northeast to Lang Son and continues across the border toNanning,China; a third runs northwest toLao Cai, about an hour's drive from top trekking destination,Sapa..
Buses offer one of the cheapest ways to get around Vietnam, making them a big hit with budget travelers. They are also highly convenient, with the extensive bus network spanning to the far-flung corners of the country..
You’ll find at least one bus station in every town. These can look chaotic but many now have ticket offices with official prices and departure times clearly displayed. Aim to buy tickets a day in advance to be certain of securing seats. Alternatively tickets can be bought directly through bus companies online, such asSinh Tourist, or purchased at most hostels or hotels (sometimes with direct pick up)..
Buses connecting major towns and cities are predominantly modern affairs, with comfortable reclining seats and even padded flat beds for long trips overnight. On the flip side, most of them are equipped with TVs (ready yourself for hours of perplexing music videos) and some with dreaded karaoke machines. Ear plugs and eye masks are recommended. Out in the sticks, expect uncomfortable local services that drop off and pick up as many passengers as possible along the route..
Additionally, in the country’s popular backpacker haunts you’ll see lots of signs advertising "Open Tour" or "Open Ticket" buses. These services, catering mostly to foreign budget travelers, run between HCMC and Hanoi (as well as some other routes) and allow passengers to hop on and hop off the bus at any major city along the way..
Whichever class of bus you’re on, bus travel in Vietnam is never particularly speedy – plan on just 30mph (50km/h) on major routes, perhaps 43mph (70km/h) on the highway – due to the sheer number of motorbikes, trucks, pedestrians, and random animals competing for space..
Traversing the length of Vietnam on two wheels is a lifelong dream for many seasoned bikers. It’s also a relatively cheap and enticing way for foolhardy travelers (usually with far less bike experience) to journey between Vietnam’s two largest cities. Motorbikes are sold by backpackers in hostels in both HCMC and Hanoi, used to travel from one to the other, and then sold on. As a result bikes aren’t always in the best condition..
A more reliable way to get hold of a set of wheels is to hire. Motorbikes are usually hired on a very casual basis. Scooters can be hired from virtually anywhere, including cafes, hotels, and travel agencies. Some places will ask to keep your passport until you return the bike/scooter. Try to sign some sort of agreement, clearly stating what you are hiring, how much it costs, the extent of compensation, and so on. Plenty of local drivers are willing to act as chauffeur and guide for around US$30 per day..
Unfortunately getting a valid licence to ride a motorbike in Vietnam is impossible for many. The rules and bureaucracy involved are frankly mind-boggling. Foreigners are permitted to ride motorbikes in Vietnam with an International Driving Permit (IDP), however, this only covers countries that abide by the 1968 Convention on IDPs. This does include most EU countries, the UK and Switzerland, but not the USA, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand..
Alternative private transport comes in the form of cars. Self-drive rentals are virtually impossible in Vietnam, which is a blessing given traffic conditions, but cars with drivers are popular and plentiful. Renting a vehicle with a driver-cum-guide is a realistic option even for budget travelers, provided there are enough people to share the cost..
Hanoi, HCMC and the main tourist centers have a wide selection of travel agencies that rent vehicles with drivers for sightseeing trips. For the rough roads of northern Vietnam you’ll definitely need a 4WD..
If you’re traveling in a tourist vehicle with a driver, the car-hire company organizes insurance. If you're using a hired bike, consider carefully that most travel insurance policies will not cover you in the event of an accident if you've not got a driving licence valid for motorbike use. Many travelers wing it, but the risks are clear. The cost of treating serious injuries can be bankrupting for budget travelers. Helmets must be worn on motorbikes at all times..
If you’re short on time then domestic flights can be a good way to get from A to B in Vietnam. The country has impressive domestic flight connections, with new routes opening up all the time, and very affordable prices (if you book early). Airlines accept bookings on international credit and debit cards. Note, however, that cancellations are quite common..
It’s safest not to rely on a flight from a small regional airport to make an international connection the same day – travel a day early if you can.Vietnam Airlinesis the least likely to cancel flights. Airlines operating domestic routes in Vietnam includeBamboo Airways,Jetstar, and Vietnam Airlines..
While undeniably convenient, planes provide less of a chance to see the rolling scenery of this glorious country up-close. They are also, of course, far more harmful to the environment..
Bicycles are a great way to get around Vietnam, particularly when you get off the main highways. In the countryside, Westerners on bicycles are often greeted enthusiastically by locals who don’t see many foreigners pedalling around..
Long-distance cycling is popular in Vietnam. Much of the country is flat or only moderately hilly, and the major roads are in good shape. Safety, however, is a considerable concern. Bicycles can be transported around the country on the top of buses (usually US$1 to US$2 for a short trip) or even in train baggage compartments if you run out of puff..
Vietnam has an enormous number of rivers that are at least partly navigable, but the most important by far is theMekong and its tributaries. Scenic day trips by boat are possible on rivers inHoi An,Nha Trang,Danang,Hue,Tam Cocand even HCMC..
There are lovely boat trips by sea too. Cruising the islands of Halong Bay is a must for all visitors to northern Vietnam. In central Vietnam theCham Islands(accessed from Hoi An) are a good excursion, while in the south, trips to the islands off Nha Trang and aroundPhu Quocare recommended. It's possible to reach theCon Dao Islandsvia boat too..
Vietnam is not the easiest of places for travelers with disabilities, despite the fact that many locals are disabled as a result of war injuries. Tactical problems include the chaotic traffic and pavements that are routinely blocked by parked motorbikes and food stalls..
That said, with some careful planning it is possible to have an accessible trip to Vietnam. Find a reliable company to make the travel arrangements and don’t be afraid to double-check things with hotels and restaurants yourself..
Some budget and many mid-range and top-end hotels have lifts. Note that bathroom doorways can be very narrow; if the width of your wheelchair is more than 60cm you may struggle to get inside..
Trains are not really geared for travelers with wheelchairs, but open tour buses are doable. If you can afford to rent a private vehicle with a driver, almost anywhere becomes instantly accessible. As long as you are open to how you get in and out of a boat or up some stairs, anything is possible, as the Vietnamese are always willing to help..
The hazards for blind travelers in Vietnam are acute, with traffic coming at you from all directions. Just getting across the road in cities such as Hanoi and HCMC is tough for everyone, so you’ll definitely need a sighted companion!.
You might also like:15 incredible things to do in VietnamDo you need a visa to go to Vietnam?When to go to Vietnam.
This article was first published April 2021 and updated November 2021.
To help you feel prepared for the Vietnamese food scene we'll cover how, when and where to eat, etiquette dos and don'ts, and what classic regional specialties are a must try. You'll find the best places to eat in every region as well as what to order when you're there and how to eat it..
To help you feel prepared for the Vietnamese food scene we'll cover how, when and where to eat, etiquette dos and don'ts, and what classic regional specialties are a must try. You'll find the best places to eat in every region as well as what to order when you're there and how to eat it..
May 2, 2023 • 9 min read.
From the vacation of a lifetime to the life of a digital nomad, we've got everything you need to know about entry requirements for Panama..
Jan 3, 2023 • 9 min read.
The best times to visit Taiwan, whether you’re a fan of cheap city breaks or long hikes to Taiwan’s top hot springs..
Dec 20, 2022 • 9 min read.
At Lonely Planet, we're always planning a trip somewhere. Here's where our staff is dreaming of going in 2023..
Dec 7, 2022 • 9 min read.
Take your time to explore India's inspiring landscapes and cultures, but first you're probably going to need to get a visa..
Jul 23, 2022 • 9 min read.
Read everything you need to know about securing a visa to visit Taiwan, a land of fabulous food, stunning hikes, delightful beaches and much more..
Jun 30, 2022 • 9 min read.
Taipei may be hot most of the year, but there's plenty to do whenever you go. Here's our month-to-month guide for traveling to Taipei..
Feb 27, 2022 • 9 min read.
From what to pack to social etiquette, here is everything you need to know before visiting Malaysia..
Oct 24, 2021 • 9 min read.
Sleek, state-of-the art bullet trains ferry passengers across China, providing a highlight reel of the nation's best sights along the way – soaring Himalayan….
Oct 14, 2021 • 9 min read.
Stretching from Central Asia to the jungles of Vietnam, China is a land of endless travel opportunities. Here's what you need to know about getting a visa..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Jun 23, 2021•5min read.
Fertilized duck egg Trung Vit Lon is very popular in Vietnam © Fabienne Fong Yan.
The most unusual foods to try in Vietnam.
Jun 23, 2021•5min read.
Vietnamese cuisine offers delicious street food, but for people visiting for the first time, some dishes may seem like too much of a challenge for their palate..
It is likely that some traditional Vietnamese dishes will excite the most adventurous: for example, dishes including blood or organ soup, or the famous fertilized duck egg are all  common in Vietnamese eating habits and regularly found on street food markets..
Find Vietnam's best street food with Lonely Planet's new guide.
Here are some of the more uncommon foods you will see served in Vietnam..
One of the easier entries to 'strange' food in Vietnam. Fertilized duck eggs are eggs in which the bird embryo is already partly formed, although it is not always visible as an actual bird (depending on the stage of development). It is appreciated as a rich source of protein and Vietnamese children are served them for breakfast. They can be enjoyed with basil leaves and salted lime chili sauces..
If you’re too intimidated by the big duck egg, another variant is Trung Cut Lon: fertilized quail eggs, these are smaller, so easier to eat. A very popular way to serve is warmed up in tamarind and lemongrass sauce (Trung Cut Lon Xao Me) – a dish commonly served in the afternoon..
This soup is very common in Vietnamese diets and highly appreciated for its medicinal properties. The broth is made from Chinese medicinal herbs and dried fruit (including mugwort, dried date and goji berries) and a very bitter rhizome rootstalk that is not supposed to be eaten, but adds aste to the soup. The soup can be prepared with ordinary light-flesh chicken but the black chicken, from a special Vietnamese breed, is the most unique version of this healthy soup. It is highly recommended for women in particular..
Chicken feet are very common in Vietnam and can be found literally everywhere. Although not expensive, they can still be considered a delicacy. Chicken feet can be fried with chili and honey sauce, or boiled and served with ginger and lemongrass in a traditional seasoning. It’s a dish usually ordered on the side, with a hot-pot. Because of that, chicken with huge feet are a special breed in some Vietnamese villages..
Blood soup (tiet canh) is a dish that is not recommended so much anymore as it is a seasoned mixture of fresh blood from different animals and can easily carry infections. I’ve never had the chance to see it in real life, let alone try it..
A more common sight on markets is animal organ soup. They can be from pigs, beef , duck or chicken. On night street food stalls, it is not unusual to see a display of all possible organs, so you can choose which you want in your broth. Options can include duck liver, pig brain, beef intestines or stomach, or more ordinary pig knuckles and feet. The recipes for organ soups or soups using uncommon parts of the animals are diverse and they show the resourcefulness and no-waste policy of the Vietnamese when it comes to food..
When you hear about snails in Vietnam, it is likely that people are referring to sea snails. Especially in the north, in the area of Ha Long, snails are very popular. They come in all forms and all kinds of recipes. “Bun oc”, snail soup, is a classic, but you can also enjoy various snail dishes in specialized street food restaurants..
Snails are available mainly in the evening (Vietnamese dishes are served following a schedule throughout the day and dishes served at night can only be found then) and there is a clear protocol as to how you order them: first choose the type of snails you want, then the way you want them cooked and finally, your sauce or seasoning. Popular ingredients include lemongrass and ginger, tamarind sauce, and green onions..
This is a dish you might not see everywhere: raw octopus can be found with mobile vendors who ramble the streets ofHanoiin the morning. Although not so tasty, the Vietnamese eat it for its texture, and all its taste comes from the aromatic herbs (mint and perilla) and most of all, the fermented shrimp sauce. The latter, called 'mam tom', is a surprising food in itself: it is so strong, salty and pungent that the Vietnamese say if you can eat it, it makes you Vietnamese..
Grilled silkworms nymphs (con nhong) are a very common street food find. They are valued for their protein and mineral qualities. In the north in particular, silkworms are bred on mulberry leaves in villages. When prepared for food, they are dried and mixed with salt in order to be fried with fish sauce. You can find them easily as a staple dish served in 'com binh dan', rice buffet places, so it’s not difficult to find if you want to try it..
We should also talk about the beetle larva – or coconut worm, consumed especially in the area of theMekong Delta, in southern Vietnam. Contrary to the silkworm, this worm is eaten live, dipped in fish sauce. It is eaten by biting the head off it first..
Another type of worm used in typical dishes is the river worm. It is prepared in a fried omelette, mixed with pork meat. This dish is called 'cha ruoi'. Why eat the river worm? It is said to be very nutritious and good for arthritis or physical aches. The worms are rather easy to find in markets, in the fresh fish and seafood section..
As we say, “one man’s food is another man’s poison”. Don’t judge local food habits when traveling: you might end up liking some of those dishes and if not, there are plenty of other food options in Vietnamese street food stalls, markets and restaurants..
This article was originally published in 2020 and updated June 2021..
Find Vietnam's best street food with Lonely Planet's new guideBest food markets to eat at in CopenhagenHanoi's most essential street food.
This article was first published December 2020 and updated June 2021.
To help you feel prepared for the Vietnamese food scene we'll cover how, when and where to eat, etiquette dos and don'ts, and what classic regional specialties are a must try. You'll find the best places to eat in every region as well as what to order when you're there and how to eat it..
.
.
.
.
To help you feel prepared for the Vietnamese food scene we'll cover how, when and where to eat, etiquette dos and don'ts, and what classic regional specialties are a must try. You'll find the best places to eat in every region as well as what to order when you're there and how to eat it..
.
.
.
.
Mar 1, 2018 • 5 min read.
From detoxifying buddha bowls to artfully-layered, deconstructed burritos, bowl foods have come along way since soups and stews were the stock options….
Oct 12, 2016 • 5 min read.
Whether we realise it or not, food is one of the key ways in which we experience a place when travelling. That secret locals' tapas bar you stumbled….
Mar 18, 2013 • 5 min read.
Climb aboard the food trend train: what’s cool today will be passé tomorrow. New food trends arrive on the scene every year, whether you’re ready for them….
Jan 19, 2012 • 5 min read.
Soup: a warming staple the world over – but who knew there were so many fine flavours? The ten below are our picks for the finest soups to slurp worldwide..
Mar 21, 2023 • 5 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 6, 2023 • 5 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Sep 13, 2022 • 5 min read.
From immense national parks to cool coastal cities, here are our picks for the best places to visit in Vietnam..
Jun 21, 2022 • 5 min read.
A bright light was extinguished when Anthony Bourdain passed away. We remember him on his birthday, June 25..
Jun 23, 2021 • 5 min read.
The best food in Hanoi is often the cheapest..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Mar 25, 2021•4min read.
The first step of a visit to Vietnam's Halong Bay? Sorting the visa © Alex Stoen / Getty Images.
Do you need a visa to go to Vietnam?.
Mar 25, 2021•4min read.
While pottering around the wild landscapes and beautiful coastlines ofVietnamcan bring a sense of inner peace, navigating the country’s visa requirements and regulations before a trip can be a real headache. To take some of the pain out of the planning process, here’s our guide to the entry requirements for Vietnam..
Editor's note: duringCOVID-19there are restrictions on travel and opening hours may vary. Check thelatest guidance in Vietnambefore planning a trip, and always follow local health advice..
Whether or not you require a visa for visiting Vietnam will depend on where you live and how long you are planning to visit for..
Residents from a number of countries have visa exemption status for tourist visits to Vietnam.  These generally fall into two categories of either 30- or 15-days exemption. Nationals of neighbouring nations, including Thailand, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia and Singapore, can stay for 30 days without a visa, while a number of European countries, including the UK, Denmark, Finland, France and Germany, as well as Russia and Japan, can travel visa-free for 15 days. The Philippines is the anomaly, which grants visa-free travel to Vietnam for 21 days. For a full list of up-to-date visa-exempt countries, see theVietnam Foreign Affairs website..
Anyone planning to visit Vietnam from outside these countries, or for longer than the allotted time period, will need to apply for a visa before travelling..
There are three ways to apply for a visa. The first is the traditional method of going to a Vietnamese embassy or consulate in your country of origin and filling out the application form, as well as providing photographs and your passport. You will be provided with your visa before departure..
The other two options, ‘visa on arrival’ and ‘e-visa’, have a similar process. Visa on arrival involves using an online agent to secure an approval letter, which is then shown – along with a valid passport – at the relevant immigration desk of any international airport in Vietnam. An additional ‘stamping fee’ is then paid to grant entry to the country. The ‘e-visa’ process is newer and more streamlined. You can apply for an e-visa through the government website, then, once approved, simply print it out and present it upon arrival in Vietnam. The additional benefit of the e-visa – alongside not having to queue at the ‘visa on arrival’ desk – is that it's valid at land borders, not just airports.Vietnam Visa Choiceare among the professional outfits offering approval letters for visa on arrivals, while e-visas are available from theVietnam Immigration website..
The conventional, single-visit, 30-day visas cost US$25 (prices can fluctuate when applying through embassies). For visa on arrival options, there will be an additional charge for securing the initial approval letter from the agency (usually around US$20). Longer, 90-day visas are also available to tourists, but these can only be applied for through an embassy or as a visa on arrival (e-visas are always 30 days maximum)..
When applying for any visa, make sure your passport is valid for at least six months from your planned travel date to Vietnam. To fly on the side of caution, aim to submit photographs that are less than six months old..
Tourist visa extensions officially cost as little as US$10, and have to be organised via agents while in Vietnam. The procedure takes seven-to-ten days and you can only extend the visa for a month (US$40) or two months (US$60) depending on the visa you hold..
You can extend your visa in big cities, but if it's done in a different city from the one you arrived in (oh the joys of Vietnamese bureaucracy!), it'll cost you US$50 to US$70. In practice, extensions work most smoothly inHCMC,Hanoi,DanangandHue..
It’s also worth noting travellers of any nationality can visit the Vietnamese island ofPhu Quocwithout a visa for up to 30 days, providing they fly in and out of the airport located on the island (Phu Quoc International Airport) and aren’t arriving from within Vietnam..
The best beaches in Vietnam48 hours in Ho Chi Minh CityA first-timer’s guide to Vietnam.
Learn how to live and work on the road with Lonely Planet’s practical guide designed to motivate people to achieve their goal of travelling more, starting a whole new way of living and creating a flexible work/life balance..
Learn how to live and work on the road with Lonely Planet’s practical guide designed to motivate people to achieve their goal of travelling more, starting a whole new way of living and creating a flexible work/life balance..
Feb 27, 2022 • 4 min read.
From what to pack to social etiquette, here is everything you need to know before visiting Malaysia..
May 23, 2023 • 4 min read.
From cutting through the countryside to connecting two cities, these 8 railway journeys offer an entirely new perspective on a destination..
Jan 20, 2023 • 4 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 3, 2023 • 4 min read.
It’s been a tough few years for travelers, which is why we’re taking inspiration from these 10 travel ideas for our 2023 trips..
Dec 26, 2022 • 4 min read.
Peace, quiet and the freshest of air: these are some of the most unique and exciting destinations to get off-grid..
Sep 13, 2022 • 4 min read.
Vietnam beckons in any season, but picking the best time for a trip comes down to what you crave from a holiday most..
May 12, 2022 • 4 min read.
It's one of Southeast Asia's most isolated countries but after more than two years of border closures, Laos has opened up to all international tourists….
Mar 23, 2022 • 4 min read.
Ho Chi Minh City is one of Southeast Asia’s top budget destinations. From temples to local sports, here are the best free things to do in Saigon..
Mar 8, 2022 • 4 min read.
Malaysia is one of the last countries in Southeast Asia to remain closed to foreign visitors since the pandemic began, but now it finally has a reopening date..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Mar 4, 2021•4min read.
From Phu Quoc to Cat Ba, these are our pick of the best beaches in Vietnam © Tonkinphotography / Shutterstock.
The 10 best beaches in Vietnam.
Mar 4, 2021•4min read.
Vietnammight not have the reputation of its Southeast Asian neighbours when it comes to leaning palms and turquoise waters, but its 3400km of coast hides its fair share of resplendent beaches – not to mention the handful of tropical, coral-ringed islands bobbing off shore. Whether you’re looking for a stretch of sand near one of the country’s buzzing cities, a spot suitable for families, or a quiet cove to escape the crowds, here’s our pick of the best beaches in Vietnam..
Editor's note: duringCOVID-19there are restrictions on travel and opening hours may vary. Check thelatest guidance in Vietnambefore planning a trip, and always follow local health advice..
Just 3km north ofHoi An, An Bang is one of Vietnam’s most happening and enjoyable beaches. There's a wonderful stretch of fine sand and an enormous horizon (with less of the serious erosion evident atCua Dai), and with only the distantCham Islandsinterrupting the seaside symmetry. Staying at the beach and visiting Hoi An on day trips is a good strategy for a relaxing visit to the area..
Fringed with white-sand beaches and with large tracts still cloaked in dense tropical jungle,Phu Quochas rapidly morphed from a sleepy island backwater to a must-visit beach escape for Western expats and sun-seeking tourists. With its picture-perfect white sand and mineral-water clear sea, Sao Beach is probably the pick of the lot, but venture off alone and you might find a section of sand all to yourself..
Forming a magnificent sweeping arc,Nha Trang's 6km-long golden-sand beach is the city's trump card. Sections are roped off and designated for safe swimming (where you won't be bothered by jet skis or boats). Two popular lounging spots are theSailing ClubandLouisiane Brewhouse. If you prefer tanning alone, head south to avoid the majority of the crowds..
Isolated from the mainland, theCon Dao islandsare one of Vietnam's star attractions. Long the preserve of political prisoners and undesirables, they now turn heads thanks to their striking natural beauty. Con Son, the largest of the chain of 15 islands and islets, is ringed with lovely beaches, coral reefs and scenic bays, and remains partially covered in tropical forests..
Mui Newas once the jewel of Vietnam’s beach resorts, but recent years has seen harsh tides erode away the sand from the golden beach and over-development erode away its charm. That said, there are still some nice sections of sand tucked away here, ideal (in season) for those who like to party at night and snooze on sunbeds during the day. Kitesurfing is also a huge draw – there are several excellent schools and world-class wind conditions between late October and April..
Stretching for 18km, the chalk-white sands and shallow turquoise waters of Doc Let ensure it ranks among Vietnam's best beaches. However, in the last few years developers have moved in big time, and busloads of tourists are herded here on tours from Nha Trang. Keep heading north along the coast for more secluded spots includingBai Bauand Bai Xep..
With golden sands, clear waters and a journey time fromHo Chi Minh Cityof just two and a half hours, this beach – which stretches for almost 10km north of Ho Tram – makes a tempting place to stop. Ho Coc is getting increasingly busy with visitors from Saigon but on weekdays it still remains peaceful..
My Khe is fast becomingDanang’s easternmost suburb. In the early morning and evening, the beach fills up with city folk doing t’ai chi. Tourists emerge during peak suntanning hours, while locals prefer the evening; fishermen still cast off from the sands in their coracle boats. The water can have a dangerous undertow, especially in winter, however, it's protected by the bulk of Nui Son Tra..
Rugged, craggy and jungle-cladCat Ba, is the largest island inHalong Bayand a stop-off for most tourist boat trips around the Unesco-listed region. To that end, the island can get very busy, which shatters the serenity somewhat; but visit during quieter months and its beaches are up there with the best in Vietnam. The three beaches of Cat Co Cove, a ten-minute walk southeast from Cat Ba Town, are perhaps the pick of the bunch..
A couple of kilometres fromQuảng Ngãiin central Vietnam, My Khe is a superb beach, with fine white sand and good swimming. It stretches for kilometers along a thin, casuarina-lined spit of sand, separated from the mainland by Song Kinh Giang, a body of water just inland from the beach. If you avoid holidays and weekends you've a good chance of having this pretty beach largely to yourself. The shoreline's profile is gently shelving so it's great for children. Not to be confused with Danang’s beach of the same name..
A first-timers guide to visiting Halong BayThe best rooftop bars in Ho Chi Minh CityVietnam's best natural wonders.
This article was first published in December 2010 and last updated in March 2021..
This article was first published December 2012 and updated March 2021.
The second edition of Lonely Planet’s bestseller presents an all-new ranking of the greatest places to visit on Earth..
The second edition of Lonely Planet’s bestseller presents an all-new ranking of the greatest places to visit on Earth..
Dec 20, 2022 • 4 min read.
At Lonely Planet, we're always planning a trip somewhere. Here's where our staff is dreaming of going in 2023..
Feb 27, 2022 • 4 min read.
From what to pack to social etiquette, here is everything you need to know before visiting Malaysia..
Mar 25, 2021 • 4 min read.
We round up the need-to-know info about tourist visas for Vietnam, including where to get them and how much they cost..
Jan 8, 2021 • 4 min read.
The capture of a female turtle in Vietnam means that at least one male and one female are now known to exist..
Oct 21, 2018 • 4 min read.
In a move that will delight animal-lovers, one national park in Vietnam has decided to ditch elephant rides in favour of the country’s first ethical….
Jun 27, 2012 • 4 min read.
Boats are often overlooked as a way to see the world; we invariably have limited time to get from A to Z so we fly, missing B to Y. In a lot of cases,….
Jun 12, 2012 • 4 min read.
Looking for a romantic spot that's (almost) all yours? Here’s a list from our brand new Best in Travel 2011 guide to reignite your love affair with desert….
May 23, 2023 • 4 min read.
From cutting through the countryside to connecting two cities, these 8 railway journeys offer an entirely new perspective on a destination..
Mar 21, 2023 • 4 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Jan 11, 2021•4min read.
There's been a tech boom in Ho Chi Minh City © Nguyen Quang Ngoc Tonkin / Shutterstock.
A guide to Ho Chi Minh City for digital nomads.
Jan 11, 2021•4min read.
While Hanoi rocks,Ho Chi Minh Cityis rolling on a wave of tech development. Skyscrapers are shooting up and tech start-ups are appearing on every corner..
There’s even a self-styled Saigon Silicon City, under construction in District 9 in the eastern suburbs. So it's no surprise many digital nomads are looking towards Vietnam's biggest city to make a home base..
Editor's note: duringCOVID-19there are restrictions on travel. Check the latest guidance before departure, and always follow local health advice..
For digital nomads, the city serves up delicious street food, inexpensive accommodation and easy-to-find high-speed internet connections, plus a big-city vibe that appeals to remote workers who want easy access to everything 24 hours a day. However, many co-working spaces are as popular with local freelancers as visiting nomads, and you won’t find the same sense of community as in more popular expat hubs, such asChiang MaiorCanggu..
Those who love HCMC, love it for its energy and enthusiasm, its start-up mentality, and its design-oriented coffee shops serving full-bodied French-style coffee. On the flip side, the motorcycle traffic jams, air pollution and tropical heat can take some getting used to. When the city closes in, nomads retreat to the calmer surroundings of theMekong Deltaand such laid-back hangouts asPhu Quoc Island, with its beaches, diving and rainforest greenery..
Easily the best-loved co-working space in Ho Chi Minh,Dreamplexhas a District 1 location (in fact two of them, plus two more in Binh Thanh District), fast internet access and a no-nonsense business vibe that appeals to nomads who like to get their heads down to work. For a more social vibe,Spiced CoWorkingis set in an area full of rooms for rent in District 2, and it hosts regular networking lunches and social gatherings, as well as offering its own co-living accommodations and a pool..
High-speed internet is easy to find in Ho Chi Minh City, thanks to heavy investment from Singapore, and download speeds of 25 Mbps are common. Promised free city-wide wi-fi has yet to materialize, but you’ll find inexpensive local SIMs for 4G mobile coverage..
Most remote workers base themselves centrally in Districts 1 and 3, while more established expats gravitate towards Districts 2 and 7. Rented apartments are the mainstay of nomad accommodations but central locations can be expensive; many transient workers prefer cheaper rooms in shared houses, though this can mean working in coffee shops and co-working spaces for relative peace and quiet. Then again, with Vietnam’s fabulous street food, you’ll want to eat out as often as possible. To get around, Uber and Grab offer a cheap alternative to local taxis, or do as locals do and jump on a motorcycle taxi..
There are several Facebook groups in HCMC aimed specifically at remote workers. Consider joiningSaigon Digital NomadsandExpats in Ho Chi Minh City..
Get down in Chinatown – the district of Cholon, 3 miles (5km) southwest of the center, offers fabulous Chinese flavors, mercantile bustle and ornate pagodas spilling out of hidden courtyards..
Take a Delta tour – the green, rice-paddy covered wetlands of the Mekong Delta are ripe for exploration; on organized tours, or independently by rented motorcycle, bus and boat..
Weekend break on the beach at Phu Quoc – VietJet Air and Jetstar offer cheap transfers to the island airstrip, putting Phu Quoc’s beaches, beach bars and national park within easy reach..
As with every travel experience in any destination, there are good bits and bad. Here's a breakdown of things to consider:.
★ Amazing food★ Low cost of living★ Plenty of culture★ Can-do attitude★ Coffee shops.
★ Overcrowding★ Pollution★ Street crime★ Traffic★ Sense of community.
Climate:December to March is southern Vietnam’s dry season, but it’s super hot and everything goes into chaotic overdrive for theTet Festival(January or February). The May-to-September rainy season brings high humidity, and starts with a blast of brutal heat.Getting there:Tan Son Nhat International Airport, Ho Chi Minh City. Trains zip to Ho Chi Minh City from northern Vietnam while buses run toPhnom PenhinCambodia.Living costs:From US$900 per month.LGBT-friendly:Yes..
10 reasons why you should become a digital nomad in 2021The 10 best countries for working remotely, according to Lonely Planet writersEverything you need to consider before becoming a digital nomad.
Learn how to live and work on the road with Lonely Planet’s practical guide designed to motivate people to achieve their goal of traveling more, starting a whole new way of living and creating a flexible work/life balance..
Learn how to live and work on the road with Lonely Planet’s practical guide designed to motivate people to achieve their goal of traveling more, starting a whole new way of living and creating a flexible work/life balance..
Mar 7, 2023 • 4 min read.
Vacationing with parents or grandparents for the first time can be a pivotal moment. These 11 amazing destinations make it easy..
Feb 10, 2023 • 4 min read.
St Patrick’s Day? It’s for the tourists. Dublin Pride – now that’s a party for everyone..
Jan 25, 2023 • 4 min read.
Plan your perfect budget honeymoon with this guide to cheaper destinations that you might not have considered..
Jan 14, 2023 • 4 min read.
Temple-tastic Thailand is one of the top traveler stops in Asia, and a trip here doesn’t have to cost the earth if you follow our smart travel tips..
Nov 11, 2022 • 4 min read.
From commuter to long-haul, third-class seats to luxury cabins, wooden benches to sleepers, the following are some of the best train trips in Thailand..
Mar 25, 2022 • 4 min read.
Cambodia is incredibly cheap when compared with destinations in Europe or North America. These top tips can make your budget stretch even further..
Mar 23, 2022 • 4 min read.
Ho Chi Minh City is one of Southeast Asia’s top budget destinations. From temples to local sports, here are the best free things to do in Saigon..
Jan 21, 2022 • 4 min read.
Before you book that elephant encounter in Thailand, read on to find out how to put Thailand's elephants' welfare first..
Dec 10, 2021 • 4 min read.
Whether it’s the atmosphere or the culture, some places are naturally suited for people traveling alone. These 10 spots are perfect for solo travelers..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Oct 22, 2020•5min read.
Vietnam offers a dizzying platter of breathtaking natural wonders © Jun Photo / Shutterstock.
Vietnam’s 10 best natural wonders.
Oct 22, 2020•5min read.
Breathtaking landscapes appear at every turn inVietnam. From the window of a trundling train you'll witness an endless patchwork of impossible-green rice paddies, while in Halong Bay a horizon studded with incisor-like limestone islands makes an ethereal sight. From Mui Ne in the deep south, where you can wonder at a Sahara-esque scene of wind-sculpted sand dunes from the basket of a hot-air balloon, to the stupendous karst mountains of the far north, Vietnam offers up a bewitching array of superlative landscapes..
Halong Bay’sstunning combination of karst limestone peaks and sheltered, shimmering seas is one of Vietnam’s top tourist draws, but with more than 2000 different islands, there’s plenty of superb scenery to go around. Definitely book an overnight cruise and make time for your own special moments on this World Heritage wonder – rise early for an ethereal misty dawn, or pilot a kayak into grottoes and lagoons. If you’re hankering for more karst action, move on to the less touristy but equally spectacularLan Ha Bay..
With jagged hills shrouded in rainforest, and mountain rivers coursing through impressive ravines, above ground thePhong Nha-Ke Bangregion is one of Vietnam's most spectacular national parks. Head underground for even more proof that this area should be part of any Vietnamese itinerary. A fortunate selection of travelers can experience the cathedral-like chambers of Hang Son Doong, the world's largest cave, but more accessible are the ziplining and kayaking thrills of Hang Toi (Dark Cave), and the other-worldly beauty of aptly named Paradise Cave..
Hang Son Doong (Mountain River Cave) is known as the world's largest cave, and is one of the most spectacular sights in Southeast Asia, with access only approved by the government in 2013..
This enormous cave was discovered quite recently. Ho Khanh, a hunter from a jungle settlement close to the Vietnam–Laos border, would often take shelter in the caves that honeycomb his mountain homeland. He stumbled across gargantuan Hang Son Doong in the early 1990s, but the sheer scale and majesty of the principal cavern (more than 5km [3.1mi] long, 200m high [656ft] and, in some places, 150m [492ft] wide) was only confirmed as the world’s biggest cave when British explorers returned with him in 2009..
How to explore the world's largest cave, Hang San Doong.
Lapped by azure waters and edged with the kind of white-sand beaches that make sun-seekers sink to their weak knees, Phu Quoc – way down in the south of Vietnam – is ideal for slipping into low gear, reaching for a seaside cocktail and toasting a blood-orange sun as it dips into the sea. And if you want to take it up a notch, grab a bike and hit the red-dirt roads: the island is relatively compact, around the size of Singapore..
The spectacular Tonkinese Alps soar skywards along the rugged, uncompromising edges of the country and include Fansipan, Vietnam’s highest peak. From sinuous and spidery ridges, rice terraces cascade down into river valleys home to ethnic minority villages of Hmong, Red Dzao and Giay peoples..
Ban Gioc is one of Vietnam’s best-known waterfalls, and its image adorns the lobby of many a cheap guesthouse. The falls, fed by the Quay Son River that marks the border with China, are an impressive sight in a highly scenic location. Aim to visit around lunchtime when the upstream dam is opened to allow full flow..
Boat owners here will punt you on bamboo rafts (for a small fee) close enough to the waterfall so you can feel the spray on your face. Rafts on the Vietnamese side have blue canopies; on the Chinese side canopies are green..
With picture-perfect white sand, the delightful curve of beautiful Sao Beach bends out alongside a sea of mineral-water clarity just a few miles fromAn Thoi, the main shipping port at the southern tip of the island. There are a couple of beachfront restaurants where you can settle into a deckchair, change into bathers or partake in water sports..
Detour off the regular Vietnam tourist trail inBa Be National Park, an essential destination for adventurous travelers, with towering limestone mountains, plunging valleys and evergreen forests. Waterfalls, caves and lakes combine in a landscape that sustains over 550 different plants and hundreds of different bird and animal species. Explore Ba Be’s natural spectacle by boat or on trekking and mountain-biking excursions, before relaxing and recharging in the rustic homestays and village guesthouses of the local Tay ethnic minority..
Thuy Son is the largest and most famous of the fiveMarble Mountains, with a number of natural caves in which first Hindu and later Buddhist sanctuaries have been built over the centuries. Of the two paths heading up the mountain, the one closer to the beach (at the end of the village) makes for a better circuit. At the top of the staircase is a gate, Ong Chon, which is pockmarked with bullet holes, leading to Linh Ong Pagoda..
Mui Ne is famous for its enormous red and white sand dunes. The “red dunes” (doi hong) are conveniently located north of the main strip, but the “white dunes” (doi cat trang), 24km (14.9mi) northeast, are the more impressive – the near-constant oceanic winds sculpt the pale-yellow sands into wonderful Saharaesque formations. But as this is Vietnam (not deepest Mali) there's little chance of experiencing the silence of the desert..
Prepare yourself for the hard sell as children press you to hire a plastic sledge to ride the dunes. Unless you're very light, it can be tricky to travel for more than a few feet this way..
Vietnam tips: a first-timer's guideAll aboard Vietnam's Reunification ExpressVietnam on a plate: a tour of Vietnam's best regional dishes.
Mar 2, 2022 • 5 min read.
These ten female travelers changed ideas about where it was possible for women to go, and the stories we tell about women's wanderlust..
Jan 8, 2021 • 5 min read.
The capture of a female turtle in Vietnam means that at least one male and one female are now known to exist..
Oct 21, 2018 • 5 min read.
In a move that will delight animal-lovers, one national park in Vietnam has decided to ditch elephant rides in favour of the country’s first ethical….
May 23, 2023 • 5 min read.
From cutting through the countryside to connecting two cities, these 8 railway journeys offer an entirely new perspective on a destination..
Mar 21, 2023 • 5 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 25, 2023 • 5 min read.
Plan your perfect budget honeymoon with this guide to cheaper destinations that you might not have considered..
Jan 20, 2023 • 5 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 3, 2023 • 5 min read.
It’s been a tough few years for travelers, which is why we’re taking inspiration from these 10 travel ideas for our 2023 trips..
Dec 26, 2022 • 5 min read.
Peace, quiet and the freshest of air: these are some of the most unique and exciting destinations to get off-grid..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Apr 27, 2020•5min read.
Vietnam's swift response to the COVID-19 pandemic has garnered attention around the world © NHAC NGUYEN/AFP via AFP via Getty Images.
How a pair of travelers weathered the COVID-19 pandemic in Vietnam.
Apr 27, 2020•5min read.
“Don’t forget your mask!” I shout to my boyfriend on our way out the door for our daily grocery run. In Vietnam, not wearing a mask in public will get you a hefty fine, or worse, detained by officials..
Since the outbreak of COVID-19 in Wuhan, China, just 1200 miles away from the northern border ofVietnam, the government has taken swift and serious action. Early on, officials shut down trade borders with China, denied visas for travelers from virus hotspots and quarantined an entire village of over 10,000 people. They even created a viral handwashing song to encourage more people to thoroughly wash their hands..
Dalia Research, a Berlin-based company, listed 62 percent of poll responders in Vietnam as saying the government is doing “the right amount” in response to the virus. The highest percentage in the world..
Vietnam, a country of over 95 million people, was among the first countries to declare itself virus-free after 16 people were treated and sent home. But in early-March, after 21-days with no new cases, a plane from London carrying infected passengers threw the country into round two..
My partner and I arrived from the Maldives on January 15, before the first two cases reached the Southeast Asian country. We watched as the virus traveled south to north. But the government’s early testing and immediate tracing of those who came in contact with infected patients stopped the rapid spread..
As we traveled up to the middle of the country, spending the majority of our time in Hoi An, our daily lives felt unaffected by the disease. This continued until COVID-19 reached our home countries in March, and the situation quickly spiraled out of control. While numbers hit the tens of thousands in the US, they hadn’t even hit triple digits in Vietnam..
Mainly due to mandatory 14-day quarantine in government facilities for anyone arriving back into Vietnam, border lockdowns for most and wide-spread testing, we felt confident enough to stay here and wait out the disease..
For many foreigners, us included, it was a difficult decision with a number of factors, including no home to return to. As digital nomads from two different countries, we wanted to stay together without burdening our families for an unknown amount of time..
So, we rented a one-bedroom apartment in Hanoi. Upon arrival, our host had us fill out mandatory health declaration forms listing where we came from, when we arrived and whether or not we are displaying any symptoms. This was then sent to the local police to keep track of the tourists in the country and trace any possible community transmission..
While my family and friends started to go into lockdown mode back home, we were still able to visit restaurants, try the local pho and sip Vietnamese coconut coffee while working from cafes here in Hanoi. Nearly every establishment had its employees wearing masks, with hand sanitizer available and someone standing there at the entrance to take your temperature..
As the cases began to rise, many of them being foreigners, xenophobia started to hit the streets of Vietnam. We’d walk through the city, seeing signs that read, “We refuse to serve foreigners here.” There were many dirty looks and stares, as well as a cab driver who refused to let us into his car. This type of discrimination born from fear was quickly denounced by the government. For fear of losing their reputation as a tourist destination, they threatened any business openly discriminating against tourists with a fine..
With more citizens returning from abroad and then visiting local bars and restaurants, the cases in Vietnam naturally spiked. So, on April 1, the government enacted fifteen days of “social-distancing.” While for many other countries, that means going out to the park for a walk while staying six-feet away. Here, that means only going out for essentials like food and medicine. As visitors in this country, that is exactly what we’re doing..
While out for our daily grocery run, we see mostly empty streets, an uncommon sight in Vietnam. Like in most Southeast Asian countries, daily life here takes place on the sidewalks. We see the vast majority of people complying, but there are still a few not wearing masks and hanging out in small groups together sipping coffee or playing on their phones. The six-foot rule is also not being enforced in places like grocery stores..
Police drive around in trucks with instructions on how to stay safe and healthy posted on the sides. From our apartment, we occasionally hear a vehicle’s loudspeaker belting out reminders from the government in Vietnamese, telling people to stay inside and wear their masks..
Today, the spread is slowing, and there are 255 confirmed cases, 144 recovered and zero deaths. Compared to other countries, including our own home countries, these numbers are astounding and encouraging. Vietnam has been praised by health officials and the World Health Organization (WHO) for its fast and competent response to the virus..
While it’s never fun to visit a country with virtually every tourist attraction shut down for weeks on end, we feel fortunate and grateful to Vietnam for allowing us to extend our tourist visas and hunker down in an apartment until we can travel again freely. To us, complying to help stop the spread of the disease is the least we can do..
Alone in Angkor Wat: there is no queue, there are no peopleHow vanlifers and RVers are coping with the COVID-19 pandemicWhy travellers need to stop expecting the world to speak English.
Mar 21, 2023 • 5 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 25, 2023 • 5 min read.
Plan your perfect budget honeymoon with this guide to cheaper destinations that you might not have considered..
Jan 20, 2023 • 5 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 3, 2023 • 5 min read.
It’s been a tough few years for travelers, which is why we’re taking inspiration from these 10 travel ideas for our 2023 trips..
Dec 26, 2022 • 5 min read.
Peace, quiet and the freshest of air: these are some of the most unique and exciting destinations to get off-grid..
Dec 20, 2022 • 5 min read.
At Lonely Planet, we're always planning a trip somewhere. Here's where our staff is dreaming of going in 2023..
Nov 23, 2022 • 5 min read.
Here are eight hikes that showcase the stunning landscapes and enchanting villages of Vietnam..
Oct 14, 2022 • 5 min read.
Every day in Vietnam is a feast. Here are the best things to eat and drink, from pho noodle soup to banh mi sandwiches and everything in between..
Sep 13, 2022 • 5 min read.
Vietnam beckons in any season, but picking the best time for a trip comes down to what you crave from a holiday most..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Feb 14, 2020•5min read.
.
Here’s what you can expect on a Lonely Planet Experiences tour of Vietnam.
Feb 14, 2020•5min read.
COVID-19 AnnouncementAll multi-day tours are temporarily suspended until April 30th for more details please visit:https://www.intrepidtravel.com/au/covid19.
With its turbulent history, rich array of cultures, astonishing natural beauty and world-renowned cuisine, Vietnam is a destination worth dedicating time to. Seeking an experience that would go beyond surface level, I discovered theLonely Planet Experiences tour of Vietnam powered by Intrepid Travel..
This immersive 15-day tour traces Vietnam’s eastern coastline from south to north by train, bus and boat — with hikes and bike rides along the way. Led by an expert team leader and with the collaboration of local guides and communities, we explored the many facets of daily life in Vietnam, with ample downtime to relax and explore. Here are some of the most memorable moments from my intrepid trip..
I met my group inHo Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, a buzzing metropolis where just crossing the road is an exhilarating adventure (top tip: walk at a steady pace, don’t stop, let them drive around you). While we had time to sightsee on day three — I paid a visit to the movingWar Remnants Museumand the imposingReunification Palace— our real adventure began on day two inBen Tre, a province of theMekong Delta..
Guided by a Ben Tre local, we cruised the palm-lined canals by boat, paying visits to local businesses like a coconut candy producer that husks a colossal 20,000 coconuts a day. Lunch on the banks of the Delta was a highlight — we enjoyed the Mekong specialty elephant ear fish, served whole and crispy with fresh salads on the side. We then settled into our homestay for the night — a local guesthouse — where we received a warm welcome and more delicious Vietnamese cuisine prepared by our hosts..
.
The city-dwellers among us particularly appreciated the chance to unplug for the night in such a tranquil setting..
Hoi An’s reputation precedes it — from the stunning World Heritage-listed architecture to the abundance of quality tailors. So I was glad to have a full three days inHoi Anup my sleeve, with lots of free time to wander. Here, our group leader took us on a fascinating walking tour of the old town, visiting landmarks such as the vibrantQuan Cong Templeand the historicJapanese Bridge. We also had the chance to explore Hoi An’s surrounding countryside on wheels, with a refreshing bike tour that took us past peaceful rice paddies and streams..
The city assumes an air of romance after sundown, when its laneways and riverside promenades are illuminated by swathes of vibrant paper lanterns. It’s the perfect time of day to peruse the night markets or check out one of Hoi An’s many bars and restaurants — some of my favourite spots includedMarket BarandHill Station. Like most of my travel companions, I also took full advantage of our extended stay to visit one of Hoi An’s famous tailors (our guide recommendedYaly Couture) and have some quality pieces whipped up..
Our second homestay experience on the trip didn’t disappoint — this time in Sung Village, located in the verdant Da Bac district of the Hoa Binh Province, a few hours west of Hanoi. The village is home to around 70 Dao Tien tribe families, whose main source of livelihood is farming, in particular Shan green tea, grown in plantations staggered down the mountainside..
Our first hike was more of a warm up — a two-kilometre walk to visit the majestic Sung Cave and a 100-year old tea plantation. That evening, we enjoyed a generous spread of dishes made from seasonal produce. I appreciated this fuel the next morning on our second, longer trek — this time a ten-kilometre walk from Sung village to Da Bia, through local villages and past breathtaking mountain vistas..
If you’re a water baby like me, then two full days onCat Ba Islandmay just sound like paradise. Nestled inLan Ha Bayin the greaterHalong Bayarea, the jungle-clad island boasts white sand coves and lush national park area ready to explore..
Most of our time on the island is free, with a relaxed boat cruise including lunch, followed by a fun kayaking session, on our second day. For those of us who didn’t set up camp on the beach with a good read (guilty), some members of the group embarked on a short yet steep hike up toCannon Fort, which on a clear day offers panoramic views over the karst-scattered bay..
We wrapped up our tour inHanoi, Vietnam’s capital city, where French Colonial architecture sits in contrast with grand, Buddhist pagodas — layers of architectural influences speaking to centuries of foreign occupation..
Here, we explored the city’s bustlingOld Quarterwith a local guide, which is still going strong after over 1000 years of trade. With a handful of free nights in Hanoi, I jumped at the chance to visit some recommended dining spots with fellow foodies in the group. Top of our list wasCafe Giang, to sip on a sweet egg coffee,Pho Thin, for their fragrant pho soup,Banh Mi Hoi An, to grab a crunchy filled baguette to go, andCha Ca Thang Long, to share a simmering hot pot of turmeric fish, fresh herbs, peanuts and rice noodles..
Taking advice from our group leader, the early birds amongst us also went for a sunrise walk aroundHoan Kiem Lake. It’s when you’ll catch energetic locals in their element, with everything from Tai Chi to ballroom dancing and yoga taking place by the water’s edge..
Lonely Planet Experiences, in partnership with Intrepid Travel & Urban Adventures, are a new range of mutli-day, day and half-day tours offering amazing experiences in the world’s best-loved destinations..
You may also like:Here's what you can expect on a Lonely Planet Experiences tour of the BalkansHere's what you can expect on a Lonely Planet Experiences tour of Japan.
Mar 21, 2023 • 5 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 25, 2023 • 5 min read.
Plan your perfect budget honeymoon with this guide to cheaper destinations that you might not have considered..
Jan 20, 2023 • 5 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 6, 2023 • 5 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Nov 23, 2022 • 5 min read.
Here are eight hikes that showcase the stunning landscapes and enchanting villages of Vietnam..
Oct 14, 2022 • 5 min read.
Every day in Vietnam is a feast. Here are the best things to eat and drink, from pho noodle soup to banh mi sandwiches and everything in between..
Sep 13, 2022 • 5 min read.
Vietnam beckons in any season, but picking the best time for a trip comes down to what you crave from a holiday most..
Sep 13, 2022 • 5 min read.
From immense national parks to cool coastal cities, here are our picks for the best places to visit in Vietnam..
Jun 21, 2022 • 5 min read.
A bright light was extinguished when Anthony Bourdain passed away. We remember him on his birthday, June 25..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Feb 11, 2020•7min read.
.
A guide to Vietnamese coffee.
Feb 11, 2020•7min read.
Strong and flavourful Vietnamese coffee makes converts as quickly as it raises pulses. French colonists might have introduced coffee to Vietnam, but the morning cup ofca phesoon became a local habit. With variations that make use of yoghurt, eggs and even fruit, Vietnamese coffee has developed a style of its own..
The preparation process, as well as the blend of beans, helps give Vietnamese coffee its particular style. Most of the Vietnamese coffee bean plantations are located in the area ofDa Lat, nicely nicknamed 'Europe of Vietnam' because of its fresher climate and hilly landscape. Most of the tea, coffee and even the flowers sold across the country are originally grown there in the south..
But what makes Vietnamese coffee so flavourful? Some will argue it's the filter drip, but the traditional roasting way actually makes for its special intense taste: the Vietnamese can roast it with rice wine, a pinch of salt, and butter. This last ingredient is the reason why slow-drip coffee in Vietnam can sport a slight oily texture. Some roasteries add flavours such as chocolate or caramel, all very much to the taste of local coffee drinkers..
Coarsely ground beans go into a French drip filter (called aphin), which sits on top of the cup. The beans are weighted down with a thin lid, hot water is added to thephin, and then the water slowly trickles through into the cup. This operation should be repeated at least twice before the drip actually produces enough coffee to be enjoyed..
In Vietnam, coffee has long overtaken its nature of simple drink. Below are some of the most famous recipes you can try while traveling across the country. Far from being fancy,  it is common to find many of them in most traditional coffee places..
Most people drink the dark, strong brew with sweetened condensed milk, a practice that began because the French couldn't easily acquire fresh milk. Up to this day, fresh milk is not a common ingredient found in traditional coffee shops. You could ask but shouldn’t count on it. In the north of Vietnam, the mixture of black coffee and sweetened condensed milk is referred to asca phe nau(brown coffee), while in the south it’s calledca phe sua(milk coffee). While it is mostly served cold with ice, you can also order it hot..
Like coffee, yoghurt was originally brought to Vietnam by the French and has been adopted into local culinary tradition. Rich and creamy, it’s served with various toppings, from fresh mango to fermented rice – and even coffee. This might sound like an odd combination, but the rich yoghurt pairs amazingly well with a drizzle of black coffee – just stir and sip..
Egg yolk whipped with condensed milk into an airy froth meets dark coffee in this rich concoction: think of it as a Vietnamese take on tiramisu. AHanoiinvention, egg coffee first made the scene in the 1940s, when milk was scarce and egg yolks provided a convenient replacement.Café Giangin Hanoi’s Old Quarter, where it was invented, still serves the egg coffee but other places now offer their own recipe - sometimes even bettering the original!.
It is unsure whether this is a traditional recipe or if it was invented by the Cong Caphe chain of boho coffee shops. What is certain however is that it's become a favourite among the trendy Vietnamese youth in the past couple of years. Black coffee with a tear of condensed milk is mixed with coconut milk and blended with ice in a sort of shake. A more regular version served in some local shops presents a base ofca phe nau(brown coffee) mixed with coconut milk and fresh milk..
In recent years, coffee has even found its way into smoothies. Popular juice shops perk up creamy blends of fresh fruit with a touch of Vietnamese coffee, sometimes tossing in yoghurt or cashews. In Hanoi, trysinh to ca phe chuoi bo(coffee blended with banana and avocado). InHo Chi Minh, go forsinh to ca phe sapoche(coffee blended with sapodilla, a tropical fruit with a custard-like taste). Both are delicious ways to get your caffeine fix and your vitamins at the same time..
Hanoiremains the undisputed centre of cafe culture in Vietnam. While modern-style coffee shops have grown in popularity, traditional sidewalk cafes still fill up from morning to night with drinkers of all ages, who linger for hours over a single glass. However, you can find quality coffee all over Vietnam..
Singling out only a few places does not do justice to the extensive Vietnamese cafe culture, but below are some addresses that remain landmarks in the two main cities:.
Known as ‘Coffee Street’, this stretch of Hanoi’s historic Hai Ba Trung District might contain more cafes per block than anywhere else in Vietnam, ranging from family-run shops to more fashionable places popular with teenagers. Hanoian favourite Cafe Tho (117 Trieu Viet Vuong), which has been here for three decades, brews a powerful cup that still draws consistent crowds..
No trip to Hanoi is complete without a taste of egg coffee at the place it was invented. Cafe Giang (39 Nguyen Huu Huan), on the edge of Hanoi’s Old Quarter, was the first to begin whipping up this drink/dessert in the 1940s. Since then the atmosphere has changed as little as the recipe. While the tiny stools here might not be the most comfortable, the drink itself is top notch. Those who don’t drink coffee can sample the egg foam with sweetened mung beans or cocoa..
Accessed via an entrance concealed in the back of a shop, a spiral staircase leads up to Hanoi’sCafe Pho Coand a stunning view of Hoan Kiem Lake. From the quiet balcony overlooking the lake and surrounding streets, you can enjoy a coffee while watching the seemingly never-ending stream of traffic pass by..
A retro cafe in Ho Chi Minh City, La Tamia (38/05 Tran Khac Chan) offers visitors a glimpse into old Saigon. Relax on a vintage sofa or browse the cafe owner’s collection of antique TVs and gramophones while enjoying your iced coffee..
A few coffee-drinking tips for your Vietnam trip:.
Milky wayDon’t even try to ask for decaf. If you prefer your coffee mild, do as the Vietnamese do and orderca phe bac xiu, coffee with lots of extra condensed milk. This will also taste like coffee ice cream and will be a delight for your (very) sweet tooth..
Sweet spotAs condensed milk is sweetened, there is no white coffee without sugar. True coffee connoisseurs should opt forca phe den(black coffee). A touch of sugar will bring out the complex flavours, just as it does with dark chocolate. However, if you want to ensure that your drink isn’t too sweet, ask foritduong(less sugar)..
Avoid hungerCafes in Vietnam don’t typically serve food although some newer cafes do offer quick eats. It is therefore accepted to bring your own snacks and eat on the spot, but you’re better off following the local custom of eating first and then heading to a cafe to relax. In a pinch, you can always nibble onhat huong duong(sunflower seeds)..
This article was originally published on June 2015 and was updated in February 2020 by Fabienne Fong Yan.
You might also like:.
Vietnam tips: a first-timer's guideHo Chi Minh's quirkiest cafesHow to explore the world's largest cave, Hang Son Doong, in Vietnam.
This article was first published June 2015 and updated February 2020.
Jun 23, 2021 • 7 min read.
It is likely that some traditional Vietnamese dishes will excite the most adventurous but that some tourists find difficult to eat because of its peculiarity..
Mar 17, 2020 • 7 min read.
Ho Chi Minh City is a foodie's dream. From cheap eats to tasty vegetarian options to Vietnamese Fusion, here's the best places to eat in Ho Chi Minh City..
May 15, 2019 • 7 min read.
Vietnam is the world’s second largest coffee exporter, and its vibrant cafe scene is having a real moment. One of Southeast Asia’s fastest developing….
Jun 8, 2018 • 7 min read.
As Vietnam’s most populous city with many universities, businesses and modern conveniences, Ho Chi Minh City draws people from all over the country, many….
Mar 1, 2018 • 7 min read.
From detoxifying buddha bowls to artfully-layered, deconstructed burritos, bowl foods have come along way since soups and stews were the stock options….
Oct 12, 2016 • 7 min read.
Whether we realise it or not, food is one of the key ways in which we experience a place when travelling. That secret locals' tapas bar you stumbled….
Mar 18, 2013 • 7 min read.
Climb aboard the food trend train: what’s cool today will be passé tomorrow. New food trends arrive on the scene every year, whether you’re ready for them….
Mar 18, 2012 • 7 min read.
Lunch tastes best from a curb-side cart: grab your fork or simply use your fingers, and munch your way through the world’s best street eats. This tempting….
Jan 19, 2012 • 7 min read.
Soup: a warming staple the world over – but who knew there were so many fine flavours? The ten below are our picks for the finest soups to slurp worldwide..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Aug 12, 2019•6min read.
Halong Bay is a World Heritage Sight and a highlight for many visitors to Vietnam © ©César Asensio / 500px.
Vietnam tips: a first-timer's guide.
Aug 12, 2019•6min read.
There's a lot to love about travelling inVietnam, which stretches from the soaring mountains and fascinating ethnic groups of the north to the endless rice paddies and vibrant waterways of theMekong Deltain the south, with more than 3000km of glorious coastline in between..
Throw in a good transport infrastructure of buses, trains and flights and an abundance of cheap but excellent street food and it's no surprise Vietnam graces countless bucket lists. But, like any country, it has its challenges, and some visitors come home with tales of scams, hectic roads and pushy vendors. Following these top tips will help you avoid the major pitfalls, and ensure you come away from your first visit to Vietnam with happy memories, as well as your souvenir conical hat..
Vietnam's long exposure to foreigners means that many local residents aren’t as overtly curious about visitors as some of their counterparts inCambodia,MyanmarandLaos. Also, because most Vietnamese are not confident with spoken English despite learning it in school, people tend to ignore lost-looking foreigners unless you actually ask for help. But be assured that the Vietnamese really are friendly people. If you ask someone a question with a smile and in slow, clear English, you’ll almost certainly have it answered and the smile returned. Simple phrases such asxin chào('hello', pronounced 'seen chow') andcám ơn('thank you', pronounced 'kaam uhn') go a long way..
While mosthotels, cafes and restaurants have wi-fi, you can easily buy a SIM card and get connected to the internet for as little as US$3. Vietnamese street names are notoriously long (most are named after people), so digital maps trump paper ones for many travellers. You’ll also find having a local phone number handy for meeting up with tour guides and making last-minute bookings on the road. SIM cards are widely sold in corner shops and are easy to top up. Once you have a card, the process to register for internet can be tricky, so ask the shopkeeper or your hotel to do it for you.Lonely Planet's Guides appcoversHanoiandHo Chi Minh City..
The Vietnamese dong is the currency of Vietnam and comes in denominations ranging from 200 to 500,000 (about US$22 at the time of writing). While it’s thrilling to become a Vietnamese millionaire, dealing with that many zeros can become frustrating, especially since some of the currency is very similar in colour. For example, the 10,000d note and the 200,000d note are both tan while the 20,000d and 500,000d notes are both blue. It’s very easy to hand over the wrong bill to a taxi driver while in a rush. Spend a minute in your room before going out to sort your bills to avoid overpaying. Even if you do end up overpaying a small amount for certain things, take it in stride. In the grand scheme of things, it’ll likely not be worth the aggravation..
While international credit and debit cards are accepted at most larger hotels, restaurants and travel agencies (sometimes with an added fee), cash is still king in Vietnam for day-to-day transactions. ATMs are widely available, and currency can be exchanged at banks (and some gold shops, although this practice is frowned upon by the government)..
Note that the official system of separate prices for Vietnamese and foreigners – which applied to everything from train tickets to entrance fees – is a thing of the past..
For many, motorcycle taxis are the best way see the thronging streets of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. However, scams can happen, and your best protection is a decent knowledge of where you are going and points along the way. Always agree on a price beforehand and be prepared to be quoted a higher price than the locals. For regular taxis, stick to the two major companies ofMai LinhandVinasun(both have apps). Smaller, independent taxis are known for fast meters and aggressive drivers. If you’re in one of the larger cities, ride-sharing apps like Uber and Grab are good, offering both car and motorcycle taxis. Sometimes the driver will call to confirm, so having a Vietnamese-speaking friend nearby will come in handy..
Overnight buses are a good way to cover long distances and save on accommodation costs. However, the layback seats don’t offer much legroom, so tallish passengers (anyone over 1.6m) will find it impossible to stretch out fully. While the top bunk offers slightly more privacy, they can be right at the height of street lights. Sleep masks, ear plugs and noise-cancelling headphones (especially if the bus is playing music or movies) are recommended..
That said, sometimes you can pay a few more dollars and fly – the more convenientbut less sustainable option. Vietnam has several budget airlines, which offer cheap fares but are notorious for being late and strictly enforcing carry-on limits. The national carrier, Vietnam Airlines, has better service and comparable pricing if booked in advance..
More comfortable than buses and cheaper than flights, train travel is another option for getting around Vietnam. A railway line spans the length of the country, following the coastline from HCMC all the way to Hanoi and beyond. It's a must for rail enthusiasts, with the ride considered amongstthe most amazing train journeys in the world..
Violent crime is extremely rare in Vietnam, and firearms are heavily regulated. But snatch-and-grabs and, to a lesser extent, pickpocketing, do happen. It pays to be vigilant. Use your phone and other electronics sparingly when outside (even while sitting at a sidewalk cafe or on the back of a motorbike). Leave your passport at the hotel; there’s rarely a reason to have the original on you..
Also, while Vietnam has some of the cheapest beer in the world, be careful about overdoing it. Inebriated tourists wandering back to their hotel in the morning hours when there is little traffic around can be seen as easy targets. If you come home late at night, go with a friend and splurge the extra dollar or two on an automobile taxi instead of a motorcycle taxi..
Traffic in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City can seem terrifying at first glance. Just walking across the street during rush hour can feel like an impossible task! But there is method to the madness and, like a school of fish, the traffic will inevitably glide around you as long as you keep moving at a slow and steady pace. If unsure, do as the locals do and raise one hand high to be seen above the sea of helmets..
If you’re looking to drive a motorbike yourself, it’s best to save it for one of the quieter destinations likeHoi An,DalatorPhu Quoc. Always wear a helmet, and be aware of the exhaust pipe, which has caused many a leg burn. As motorbikes tend to drive closely to each other, keep your feet pointed inwards and think of wearing closed shoes which offer extra protection for your feet..
For more tips on planning a trip to Vietnam, including what to wear and what to book in advance, see ourplanning tips..
This article was originally published in July 2012 and most recently updated in August 2019..
https://shop.lonelyplanet.com/products/vietnam-travel-guide-14.
Oct 14, 2022 • 6 min read.
Every day in Vietnam is a feast. Here are the best things to eat and drink, from pho noodle soup to banh mi sandwiches and everything in between..
Sep 20, 2022 • 6 min read.
From its iconic dining culture to superb shopping and cultural attractions, here are the best things to do in Fukuoka, Japan..
Sep 13, 2022 • 6 min read.
From immense national parks to cool coastal cities, here are our picks for the best places to visit in Vietnam..
Jun 9, 2022 • 6 min read.
If you’re looking for fun and unique things to do in Fayetteville, North Carolina, start with these 11 places..
Apr 26, 2022 • 6 min read.
Fringed by beautiful beaches and tropical islands, this country packs everything Southeast Asia has to offer into one bite-sized chunk..
Mar 24, 2022 • 6 min read.
From huge Buddha statues to beach resorts and river pagodas, there's plenty to see beyond Myanmar's biggest city. Here are the best day trips from Yangon..
Feb 15, 2022 • 6 min read.
Arguably one of India’s most naturally beautiful states, Arunachal Pradesh can aptly be described as an outdoor lover’s paradise..
Sep 26, 2021 • 6 min read.
Both stubbornly traditional and forward-looking, bustling Hanoi often confounds first-time visitors. Here are the top things to do while you're there..
Jun 23, 2021 • 6 min read.
It is likely that some traditional Vietnamese dishes will excite the most adventurous but that some tourists find difficult to eat because of its peculiarity..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Jul 8, 2019•6min read.
Hoi An's Ancient Town is lit by lanterns at night © James Pham / Lonely Planet.
Sunsets, lanterns and art: free things to do in Hoi An.
Jul 8, 2019•6min read.
Visitors to Vietnam often cite charmingHoi Anas one of their favourite cities. A thriving medieval port city that was reduced to a backwater country town by the late 18thcentury, Hoi An was more recently reborn as a Unesco-listed World Heritage Site for its well-preserved Old Town. Nowadays, up to five million people visit Hoi An annually, most spending a modest VND 120,000 for a ticket to see five of the town’s 22heritage attractionsor not-so-modest sums on getting tailor-made clothing and shoes at the town’s more than 300 tailor shops..
However, with its quaint, grid-like streets (pedestrian-only for much of the day) perfect for walking and its flat country roads ideal for cycling (bikes sometimes provided free by hotels), there are a handful of interesting things to see and do where you won’t even have to crack open your wallet..
Phan Boi Chau Street, just east of the Hoi An Market, is becoming a go-to destination for art lovers. In the space of a few blocks on this so-calledRue des Arts, you can find spectacular photographs of Hoi An and its people by French photographer Réhahn (in front of thePrecious Heritage Museum). There are also Hoi An-inspired watercolours by UK artistBridget March,andArt Space, a cafe displaying a selection of sculpture, photography and paintings..
Just near Cua Dai Beach, the nearly 1.5km-long Cua Dai Bridge spanning the Thu Bon River makes for a great elevated viewing point, especially at sunrise or sunset. There are superb vistas in every direction, including out over the mouth of the river and theCham Islandsbeyond, and back across town with the mountains in the distance..
Just 5km north of town isAn Bang Beachand neighbouringCua Dai Beach. While Hoi An’s beaches do have issues with sand erosion, they’re still perfectly fine (and free!) as an antidote to all the shopping and sightseeing you’ll likely be doing..
Yes, the narrow streets of Hoi An’sOld Townare lined with boutiques and cafes and resemble an outdoor mall for much of the day. But there’s something about the historic shophouses with their clay-tiled roofs and ochre-coloured walls that remain timeless. For a better experience, try visiting in the early morning when the market is populated mainly with locals, or in the cool of the evening, when the town takes on a lantern-lit glow. This particularly special on the 14thday of each lunar month when the Old Town turns off its electric lights and is lit solely by colourful lanterns for the Full Moon Festival..
If you can stomach the smell of fish before breakfast, head to one of Hoi An’s two fish markets – Duy Hai (near where the Thu Bon River empties out into the sea) or Thanh Ha (near the pottery village). Watch as fishing boats return in the early morning hours, offloading their catch which is quickly sorted and sold. The atmosphere is bustling and all the activity in the early morning light is a photographer’s dream..
If you thought Hoi An was touristy by day, just wait until you see its Night Market. It's a raucous, crowded, 300m stretch of Nguyen Hoang Street, loaded with vendors selling everything from snacks and trinkets to paper cut-out cards and silk ties. The lantern shops make for particularly nice photo backdrops..
Just across the Thu Bon River from Hoi An isCam Kim Islandwith its rural scenes of rice paddies and family shrines. The star of the island is arguably Kim Bong village, famous for its many carpentry shops. Wander the workshops and watch artisans working with wood in all shapes and sizes, from hand-carving wooden statues and meticulously inlaying mother-of-pearl to making furniture and building ships. You can cycle the 9km distance on your own, taking the Cam Kim Bridge towards the southwest of town, or join aHoi An Free Tour, led by enthusiastic English-speaking university students. The tour is free, however, visitors are asked to contribute VND 50,000 towards the ferry ride and a small donation to the community..
If you can’t get out to one of the single-craft villages around Hoi An, stop by the small workshop at the back ofReaching Outwhere you’ll find artisans (many of them people with disabilities) crafting everything from silver jewellery to intricate embroidery. Book a free touron the websiteor just wander around the small workshop on your own..
French photographer Réhahn has spent the better part of a decade documenting nearly all of Vietnam’s 54 ethnic minority groups, some with fewer than 10 people still able to speak the language. The result is thePrecious Heritage Museumshowcasing beautiful portraits and costumes from around the country..
Just across the Cam Nam Bridge from Hoi An, the river island of Cam Nam is a quiet place to cycle. Locals flock to the island in the evenings for its famed clam dishes, but its coconut palm-fringed waterways and many cottage industries make for an equally interesting backdrop. Head to the harbour at the end of the island and watch the fishing boats come in at the end of the day..
Hoi An’s most famous dish iscao launoodles, which gets its distinctively chewy texture from soaking rice in lye water originally procured from theBa Le Well(which explains why it’s practically impossible to find outside of Hoi An). Strictly for hardcore foodies, visit the unassuming Ba Le Well to see where this famous dish got its start..
About 5km east of Hoi An is the single-craft pottery village of Thanh Ha. Originally established to provide clay roof tiles and other ceramic and pottery needs of the town, the village still churns out hand-thrown pottery, though much of it is now mainly for decoration. Watch as artisans form vases and bowls using a foot-powered potter’s wheel, and look forMrs Phu, now well into her 90s who can still throw a mean lump of clay..
Most of the flavourful herbs that accompany many of Hoi An’s dishes come from the village of Tra Que. Situated between the town and the beach, the village is famous for its organic herbs and vegetables, fertilised using locally-sourced seaweed instead of chemicals. Walk the neat rows and watch farmers working the fields by hand. Also look out for the scarecrows dressed in conical hats. While you’re in the area, cycle the surrounding paths through the beautiful Hoi An countryside dotted with lush rice paddies, inquisitive water buffalo, and ponds stocked with shrimp and fish..
Need more inspiration? Enjoy one or more of thesegreat day trips from Hoi An..
Jul 22, 2019 • 6 min read.
It’s hard to think of a more visitor-friendly town than Hoi An. A ridiculously photogenic Ancient Town? Hundreds of tailor and leather shops offering….
Jun 21, 2019 • 6 min read.
You’ve explored the Unesco-heritage centre of Hoi An, spent some time on An Bang beach, seen plenty of arts and crafts, and the new clothes you ordered at….
Mar 15, 2019 • 6 min read.
What we eat, how we eat it and what we learn about the local culture when we do so is such a key part of the travel experience – and it’s no different….
Feb 1, 2019 • 6 min read.
Hoi An is a town unlike any other in Vietnam. Once the commercial capital of the Champa Empire, a seafaring people who ruled over Vietnam’s central coast,….
May 2, 2016 • 6 min read.
There’s no better way to get under the skin of a destination than to gorge on local food. And markets provide an unrivalled way to eat stunning,….
Dec 10, 2015 • 6 min read.
Travel for even a week in Vietnam and you’ll soon realise how few of its gastronomic specialities are well known outside the country. Every region lays….
Mar 15, 2011 • 6 min read.
One of the best travel souvenirs you can bring home is the ability to cook some of the dishes you sampled on your journey. Cooking courses are becoming….
Jan 25, 2023 • 6 min read.
Plan your perfect budget honeymoon with this guide to cheaper destinations that you might not have considered..
Jan 6, 2023 • 6 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Jun 21, 2019•5min read.
Giant concrete hands hold up the Golden Bridge in the Ba Na Hills © LINH PHAM / AFP / Getty Images.
Islands, temples and caves: 7 great day trips from Hoi An.
Jun 21, 2019•5min read.
You’ve explored the Unesco-heritage centre ofHoi An, spent some time on An Bang beach, seen plenty ofarts and crafts, and the new clothes you ordered at one of the town’s many tailors will be ready any day. While you wait, though, there’s lots to see beyond the Old Town. Here are some great day trips to take from Hoi An..
Hue(pronounces ‘hway’), located on the Perfume River, was the capital of the Nguyen emperors from 1802 to 1945. Many of its fine buildings were destroyed during the American War, but the 19th-century Citadel and a lot of temples and tombs are still there to explore. Visit theImperial Enclosureand Forbidden Purple City within theCitadel, although beware that some of it is still being reconstructed..
Getting there:Hue is nearly a three hour drive from Hoi An. Either hire a driver for a full day tour, or book on a group tour in Hoi An..
TheCham Islandsare around 15km offshore of Hoi An and make for a perfect day trip. The granite islands are a playground for divers, snorkellers and beach-goers. Visit between March and September when the ocean isn’t too rough. There’s good swimming onBac Beach; the only other sight is atemplededicated to whales, which are sadly seldom seen around the islands..
Getting there:The islands are reached by local ferry or high-speed boat. Alternatively go as part of a snorkelling or dive group with one of the local dive schools, such asCham Island Diving..
My Son(pronounced ‘me sun’) is the site of Vietnam’s most extensive Cham remains and traces its history back to the late 4th century. The Hindu temples, mostly in ruins, are set in lush jungle overlooked by Cat’s Tooth Mountain. The ruins were rediscovered in the 19th century and parts of the complex were restored, but during the American War, important monuments and structures were further destroyed, particularly the ‘Group A’ temples. The ruins can get very busy, so it’s worth going early to avoid both the crowds and the heat..
Getting there:My Son is 55km from Hoi An and well signposted. If you don’t have your own vehicle, hire a driver in Hoi An, or ask your accommodation to book you on a minibus tour..
The Golden Bridge inBa Na Hillsopened in June 2018 and was an instant Instagram hit. It’s part of Sun World amusement park (entrance fee: 750,000 VND), reached by a 5km-long cable car ride into the mountains. Views over the jungle down into the city ofDanangare spectacular. Take another cable car from the bridge up into the French town that’s the centre of the theme park. From there, head down intoDanang, which is approximately an hour’s drive; you can sample somelocal beers, or simply relax on the beach..
Getting there:Sun World is around 60km from Hoi An, and the drive takes about two hours. Guided tours are available, but are likely to be more expensive than hiring your own driver..
TheMarble Mountains(Ngu Hanh Son) are made up of five marble outcrops, each one topped by a pagoda. The mountains are said to represent the elements and are named accordingly: Thuy Son (Water), Moc Son (Wood), Hoa Son (Fire), Kim Son (Metal or Gold) and Tho Son (Earth). The atmospheric network of caves through the mountains are worth exploring. In addition to chimney-like formations and stalactites, expect to see Hindhu and Buddhist altars, shrines and inscriptions carved on cave walls. Parts of the cave network were used by the VC as a field hospital during the American War. Stop by the villages at the foot of the mountains where artisans sell marble sculptures..
Getting there:Group tours depart Hoi An, or, if you have your own vehicle, look for the turning off the Danang Beach coastal road. It’s about a half-hour drive from Hoi An..
The Co Tu people are a small and traditional minority group in Vietnam. Villages are made up of stilt houses organised around a central community building, which is used for meetings, performances and rituals. The village ofBho Hoong, in the inland mountains, has a community tourism project that welcomes visitors to the settlement, providing overnight accommodation in modern, comfortable thatch bungalows..
Getting there:Various tour operators run trips from Hoi An, often including tours of the countryside all the way to the Laos border. Visitors can arrange independent visits, but be sure tobook accommodationin advance. Bho Hoong is just over a two-hour drive from Hoi An..
The village of Thanh Ha is known for its pottery industry. For a small admission fee, you can visit the artisans, who are happy to show you their work (and usually much happier if you buy some of it). It’s unlikely that you’ll want to spend a full day here, but it’s certainly worth a trip..
Getting there:Thanh Ha is only 5km from Hoi An and can be reached by bike..
https://shop.lonelyplanet.com/products/vietnam-travel-guide-14.
Mar 21, 2023 • 5 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 20, 2023 • 5 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 6, 2023 • 5 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Sep 13, 2022 • 5 min read.
Vietnam beckons in any season, but picking the best time for a trip comes down to what you crave from a holiday most..
Sep 13, 2022 • 5 min read.
From immense national parks to cool coastal cities, here are our picks for the best places to visit in Vietnam..
Mar 31, 2022 • 5 min read.
Vietnam has over 30 national parks. Here's our guide to the very best, from underground marvels to golden coastlines..
Mar 4, 2021 • 5 min read.
Vietnam may not have the reputation for world-class beaches of its neighbours, but it still hides a few crackers..
Oct 22, 2020 • 5 min read.
From the stunning Halong Bay to the sand dunes of Mui Ne, Vietnam offers up a bewitching array of superlative natural landscapes. Here's our favorite 10..
Sep 10, 2019 • 5 min read.
In all of Sofia Levin's travels, she often feels safest in Asia. Here are six destinations in Asia that Sofia recommends for solo female travellers, as well as….
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Jun 7, 2019•5min read.
The entrance of Saigon Central Market, also known as Ben Thanh market, one of the earliest surviving structures in Saigon © Richie Chan / Shutterstock.
Two days in Ho Chi Minh City.
Jun 7, 2019•5min read.
Ho Chi Minh Cityis the compelling commercial hub of modernVietnam, with wide boulevards, grand colonial buildings, cultural sights, and a vibrant tangle of narrow paths – all framed by a kinetic river of traffic. From noodle breakfasts to evening drinks, here’s how to make the most of a weekend in Saigon..
Pull up a stool atBen Thanh marketfor a hearty breakfast of herb-ladenpho(noodle soup) andca phe sua da(iced coffee with milk). From Ben Thanh's iconic clock tower, it's a short stroll to Ho Chi Minh City'sFine Arts Museum, a building displaying the elegant architecture of French colonial times. The galleries showcase centuries-old statuary and a superb collection of propaganda art and other pieces inspired by the tragedy of war. (Art lovers: consider taking a longertourof the city's art scene.) From the heritage of the Fine Arts Museum, continue to the soaring modernity of the 68-storeyBitexco Financial Tower. Ascend to the 48th-floor Saigon Skydeck for views of the impetuous growth of Vietnam's economic capital,or spend the entrance fee instead on an Italian coffee with the same views from theEON Heli Baron the 52nd floor..
From the tower,make your way up charming, tree-lined Dong Khoi, one of Saigon’s oldest streets. While it’s now home to trendy boutiques and luxe brand-name stores, it still retains traces of its colonial French origins through repurposed heritage buildings and elegant hotels. The street is bookended by the Majestic Hotel (opened in 1925), towards the river, and theCaravelle Hotel, where journalists reported on the American war from their bar stools. Head up to the very same 10th-floorSaigon Saigon Barfor sweeping views of downtown. The ground-floorCafé de l’Opéra, facing the gorgeousOpera House, is also a good stop for a refreshment and nibbles..
For some home-style Vietnamese cooking, head toSecret Garden, just a few blocks from the former CIA building where the final helicopter evacuation of Saigon famously took place in April 1975. This rooftop, however, is much more pleasant, shaded with small trees on top of a residential building. Choose from the extensive menu of tapas-sized dishes that lean more towards rustic country cooking than typical restaurant fare.After lunch, walk about5 minutesto the colonial red-brick elegance ofNotre Dame Cathedral. Across from the cathedral, check out the interior of Ho Chi Minh City's gloriousCentral Post Office, which was built between 1886 and 1891. Highlights of theelegant (and very much still-in-use) buildinginclude wall-covering historic maps of the city. Then continue across 30/4 Park to the nearbyReunification Palace, accessed by walking through iron gates that were cast aside by Communist tanks when the city fell to the North Vietnamese Army on 30 April 1975. More than four decades on, the building's 1960s architecture and memory-packed halls make for one of the city's most intriguing attractions. Don't miss the basement, a labyrinth of tunnels filled with maps, situation rooms and 1960s telecommunications gear..
It's now time for someone else to do the work. Jump on the back of a motorbike or scooter for a tour of the city after dark. Coursing through the neon-lit excitement of Saigon's evening traffic could be the most fun you'll ever have on two wheels. BothVespa AdventuresandXO Toursincorporate lots of street food into their nightly adventures. A highlight is grilled seafood and ice-cold 333 beer in the District 2 neighbourhood; your two-wheeled discovery of the city could also include raucous rock clubs or bohemian music cafes. For a final nightcap, adjourn to one of the city's exciting rooftop bars. Check out the 21st-century innovation ofAir 360, or the river views from theM Barat Majestic Hotel..
In previous centuries, the bustling Chinese quarter of Cholon was a separate settlement, but the district southwest of central HCMC is now an integral part of the city’s modern sprawl. Begin your second day by having another local breakfast, this time with the friendly stallholders at Cholon'sBinh Tay Market, before negotiating the surrounding urban maze. Streets are fragrant with medicinal herbs, storefronts are festooned with Chinese-language signs, and Taoist and Buddhist temples stand near 19th-century Catholic churches. Slowly burning coils of fragrant incense frameThien Hau Pagoda, dedicated to the Chinese goddess of seafarers; and nearby atPhuoc An Hoi Quan Pagodaa riot of red, gold, green and yellow creates one of the city's most beautiful and ornate temples.For a more in-depth DIY walking tour of the area, pick up a copy of the excellentExploring Ho Chi Minh Cityby local historian Tim Doling (available at select Fahasa book stores, including the large one on Nguyen Hue)..
Lunch back in central HCMC atPropagandabistro – overlooking 30/4 Park and serving regional dishes from across the country – then continue about 1km west to theWar Remnants Museum. The human tragedy of the decades of conflict that racked Vietnam in the 20th century is rendered in poignant and often confronting detail here, but visiting this museum is essential. Be sure to venture upstairs to see the Requiem Exhibition, a striking showcase of images taken by legendary war photographers killed in the conflict, and see if your country is represented in the ground-floor collection of posters and photographs supporting the antiwar movement. After visiting this compelling museum, continue to the city's lushBotanic Gardensfor some quiet reflection..
Begin with craft beer at thePasteur Street Brewing Company– some of their brews use local ingredients such as Dalat coffee or rambutan and lemongrass – before trying the classy southeast Asian flavours at restaurant and barThe Racha Room. For a more raffish experience, crowd in with locals at the quirky and loads-of-funQuan Ut Ut. With a name roughly translating to 'Oink Oink Cafe', this easygoing riverside place serves up slow-cooked American barbecue with a Vietnamese spin.From the energetic good times of Quan Ut Ut, it's just a 5-minute taxi ride to one of the city's best after-dark venues,The Observatory, where DJs and other performers raise the roof on a regular basis.Alternatively, head to thecabaret-styleAcousticin District 3, close to the War Remnants Museum, and join the throng of live-music-loving young Vietnamese for an eclectic mix of everything from punk to flamenco to pop covers..
First published January 2016, updated by James Pham in June 2019.
Check outadventure toursfor every traveller from our trusted partners..
https://shop.lonelyplanet.com/products/vietnam-travel-guide-14.
Mar 17, 2020 • 5 min read.
Ho Chi Minh City is a foodie's dream. From cheap eats to tasty vegetarian options to Vietnamese Fusion, here's the best places to eat in Ho Chi Minh City..
Dec 13, 2019 • 5 min read.
Chicago’s first full-service board game café will open in January, with the creators of Cards Against Humanity behind the enterprise..
May 15, 2019 • 5 min read.
Vietnam is the world’s second largest coffee exporter, and its vibrant cafe scene is having a real moment. One of Southeast Asia’s fastest developing….
Jun 8, 2018 • 5 min read.
As Vietnam’s most populous city with many universities, businesses and modern conveniences, Ho Chi Minh City draws people from all over the country, many….
Mar 1, 2018 • 5 min read.
From detoxifying buddha bowls to artfully-layered, deconstructed burritos, bowl foods have come along way since soups and stews were the stock options….
Oct 11, 2017 • 5 min read.
A vital lifeline in war and peace, Vietnam’s 1000-mile long North-South Railway provides an all-in encounter with the country’s incredible beauty, people….
Feb 9, 2017 • 5 min read.
Cheap. Tasty. A traveller staple. Noodles claim their place on menus the world over and chances are you’ve had some recently – whether hot or cold, sauced….
Oct 12, 2016 • 5 min read.
Whether we realise it or not, food is one of the key ways in which we experience a place when travelling. That secret locals' tapas bar you stumbled….
Dec 10, 2015 • 5 min read.
Travel for even a week in Vietnam and you’ll soon realise how few of its gastronomic specialities are well known outside the country. Every region lays….
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Jun 2, 2019•5min read.
Inside the world's largest cave ©Ryan Deboodt/Oxalis Adventure Tours.
How to explore the world's largest cave, Hang Son Doong, in Vietnam.
Jun 2, 2019•5min read.
The world’s largest cave,Hang Son Doong(Mountain River Cave) inVietnam, has suddenly become a lot larger thanks to the remarkable discovery of an underwater tunnel connecting it to another cave..
The discovery was made in April by a trio of British divers, who were invited to explore the cave in central Vietnam’sPhong Nha Ke Bang National Parkby Howard Limbert, leader of the caving team that first mapped Son Doong in 2009..
The three divers – Jason Mallinson, Rick Stanton and Chris Jewell – were part of the team that rescued the Thai soccer team in 2018. Tasked with exploring Son Doong’s extensive network of waterways, they discovered a previously unknown tunnel linking it to another giant cave called Hang Thung..
At more than 200m high (up to 503m in parts), 175m wide and 9.4km long, Son Doong was already huge – so big that it could easily accommodate any of the world’sotherlargest caves and you could fit several forty-storey skyscrapers standing upright. The new discovery adds an extra 1.6 million cu metre of volume to its existing 38.5 million cu metre, which is the equivalent of climbing Mount Everest’s 8848m and discovering a mound that made it 1000m taller, as Limbert recently told CNN..
Son Doong was first discovered by a local man, Ho Khanh, in 1990. Taking shelter from a storm at the base of a huge cliff in the heart of the jungle, he found a deep hole at the base of the rock that was emitting wind and even puffs of cloud. He didn’t explore further, and its location was forgotten for 19 years until he rediscovered the entrance and led Limbert and his team of divers to it..
'We were the first people to enter the cave,' Limbert told Lonely Planet. 'There is no evidence that anyone lived in Son Doong in the past. Usually it’s easy to see this in a cave… also, all the entrances and exits involve near-vertical descents of at least 85m using technical equipment.' By contrast, a 5000-year-old stone axe was discovered in a nearby cave, suggesting that Son Doong’s relative inaccessibility might indeed have deterred prehistoric explorers..
However, the cave is rich in other forms of life. 'We have seen monkeys that are able to climb down 200m to visit the jungle within the cave where they collect snails,' says Limbert. 'We’ve also seen snakes and other animals including squirrels, rats, flying fox as well as birds and bats.' He and his team also discovered seven new species of fish, spider, scorpion, shrimp, wood lice and plankton – all of them completely white and without eyes, the evolutionary consequences of existing in complete darkness..
Yet there is plenty to see in the cave, with parts of it illuminated by two dolines – or sinkholes – that can flood the cave with beams of spectacular sunlight. Within its depths are the world’s largest stalagmites and a jungle with trees up to 50m high. 'You can see up to 1.5km,' says Limbert, 'but the cave’s own weather system can make clouds that are spectacular but cut down visibility.'.
Although he has explored the cave over 100 times, Limbert’s enthusiasm for the cave’s beauty remains undiminished. 'There is nowhere like this place anywhere in the world,' he says. 'It is not just the size – though it does matter (as they say) – but the variety of unusual and amazing locations within the cave, such as swimming pools in the dark and 400-million-year-old fossils.'.
The cave is open to visitors, but access is strictly controlled and limited to 1000 a year. All tours are organised and led exclusively byOxalis Adventure Tours, for which Howard Limbert is one of the technical directors along with his wife, Deb. Visits are restricted by the rainy season to the months between the end of January and the end of August, after which the cave becomes impassable..
The entrance to Phong Nha-Ke Bang National Park is accessible from Son Trach town, which is 50km north ofDong Hoi. There are regular bus connections to Dong Hoi fromHue,Hoi AnandDanang. A typical tour costs $3000 (of which $660 goes to Phong Nha Ke Bang National Park) and lasts four days. All groups are capped at 10 visitors and include a guide (all tours are led by at least one of the British cavers involved in the original exploration), a safety assistant, cooks, porters and a park ranger. A degree of fitness is required, warns Limbert, but you don’t have to be an experienced caver or climber – some trekking experience is enough..
Central Vietnam’s network of caves has transformed the region. Once one of Vietnam’s poorest, it is now the world’s most popular spot for cave exploration and the country’s fastest-growing tourist destination. For Howard Limbert and his team this is all well and good, but conservation remains a paramount concern, especially as 70% of the region’s caves remain unexplored. 'All customers must follow strict rules to protect the fragile caves,' he reminded us..
As for Son Doong and Hang Thung, Limbert says the plan is for the divers to return in 2020 and use special mixed gases to explore even deeper than the 503m plumbed in April. The world’s largest cave may have gotten a lot bigger, but there’s the possibility that it may get bigger still..
https://shop.lonelyplanet.com/products/vietnam-travel-guide-14.
Apr 13, 2017 • 5 min read.
For many of us Mount Everest takes on a kind of mythical quality, destined to remain in the realms of our imaginations. But for this bold traveller, mere….
Mar 21, 2023 • 5 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 20, 2023 • 5 min read.
Long and sinuous, like the mythical naga serpent, Vietnam was made for exploring by road. From the mountains to the Delta, here are our favorite road trips..
Jan 6, 2023 • 5 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Dec 26, 2022 • 5 min read.
Peace, quiet and the freshest of air: these are some of the most unique and exciting destinations to get off-grid..
Nov 23, 2022 • 5 min read.
Here are eight hikes that showcase the stunning landscapes and enchanting villages of Vietnam..
Sep 13, 2022 • 5 min read.
From immense national parks to cool coastal cities, here are our picks for the best places to visit in Vietnam..
Jun 9, 2022 • 5 min read.
If you’re looking for fun and unique things to do in Fayetteville, North Carolina, start with these 11 places..
Apr 7, 2022 • 5 min read.
LP staffer Amanda McCadams has spent two decades photographing Unesco World Heritage Sites around the globe. These are the sites she says everyone has to see..
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
May 15, 2019•5min read.
A coffee with a swan drawn in milk perches on a table overlooking Ho Chi Minh City from 50 stories high.
Ho Chi Minh City’s quirkiest cafes.
May 15, 2019•5min read.
Vietnam is the world’s second largest coffee exporter, and its vibrant cafe scene is having a real moment. One of Southeast Asia’s fastest developing economies, it has a relatively young population and more than a century of caffeine tradition..
Leading the way is the southern metropolis ofHo Chi Minh Citywith some of the country’s best cafes: from historic streetside stalls to plush lounges 50 stories high..
Opened in 1954, this no-name coffee shop is one of the last places you can still try what the locals callca-phe vot(net coffee) orca-phe vo(stocking coffee), so named because the mesh filters look like women’s stockings. Born in an era where the now-ubiquitous metal drip filters were hard to come by, stocking coffee is made by steeping finely ground coffee through fine mesh nets; with the addition of sweetened, condensed milk the result is a rich, almost caramel-like drink..
It's open 24/7, but come early to watch the carefully choreographed chaos unfold as dozens of patrons on motorbikes line the narrow alleyway for their morning brew on the way to work. Keeping with the mysterious vibe, this cafe doesn't have any website or social media, but you can find it in the flesh at 330/2 Phan Dinh Phung, Phu Nhuan District..
L’Usine Le Thanh Tonis coffee wrapped up in a highly photogenic lifestyle package. Inspired by Old Saigon, the trendy coffee shop-cum-boutique serves up some of the city’s best drip coffee as well as to-die-for red velvet cupcakes, sweet and savoury canapes and even craft beer. Hang out on the 1st floor with its vintage-inspired tiles and plantation shutters, or work your way upstairs and sidle up to the gorgeous wood slabs reclaimed from underwater trees for a more peaceful workspace. There’s also a boutique selling unique Vietnam-inspired gifts and clothing by trendy local designers..
For expansive views of sprawling HCMC, skip the observation decks of the city’s two tallest buildings and spend your money on a cup of joe at these sky-high cafes instead.Blank Lounge, on the 75th and 76th floors of Landmark 81 (Vinhomes Central Park), is one of Southeast Asia’s highest lounges. Grab a seat along the wraparound windows or hang out on the outdoor terrace which juts out 76 stories above Saigon. Drip and machine-brewed coffees are available as are all-day brunch-style sweet and savoury bites..
Closer to downtown isCafe EONon the 50th floor of the of Bitexco Tower, the city’s second-tallest building. Enjoy an Italian coffee next to giant windows in the family-friendly space or, better yet, head up one level to the 360-degree fine-dining restaurant where you’ll find quiet tables for two in ‘Couples Corner’. Coffee is served with a kick in the adult-only 51st-floor lounge – the Cafe EON version of an espresso martini is a boozy concoction of vodka, Kahlúa, espresso and chocolate sauce. Views include Bitexco’s famed helipad, which is available for parties at US$3000 per hour, complete with a ring of security guards to make sure tipsy guests don’t tumble over the edge..
The industrial chicMaison Maroutriples as a tea salon, chocolate shop and miniature chocolate factory. While you can certainly order coffee here, the hot chocolate is the Marou brother’s speciality. Made from single-origin Vietnamese chocolate vigorously shaken with hot milk, the frothy, intense, slightly tart, not-too-sweet elixir is nothing short of life-changing. The cafe’s quirky yet sleek interior will be popular with design enthusiasts and there’s lots of entertainment to be had here, with a large window allowing customers to view the chocolate factory while enjoying the results!.
A cafe nestled in a gorgeous room brimming with curious antiques,Villa Royaleis an exercise in quaint gentility smack in the middle of frenetic HCMC. Sip Lavazza coffees or 50 varieties of TWG teas in beautifully patterned cups amidst an eclectic collection of treasures from around the world – including Buddhist monk scrolls from Laos and traditional tattoo needles from Myanmar. Sweet and savoury treats are also made in-house, many using products from the highlands ofDalat, where cool temperatures allow for the growing of strawberries and blueberries..
Inspired by Vietnam’s French colonial era, theVintage Emporium(95B Nguyen Van Thu) puts a fresh, modern spin on all things antiquated, from vintage-inspired tiles to 70s-era paraphernalia. Thelocation in District 2(1 Duong so 39) is even more impressive, housed in a grand villa fronted by a pretty trellised arch. Both locations serve up hot and cold coffees to go along with all-day breakfast and Mediterranean-inspired dishes that skew towards the healthy and beautiful..
Something out of a faded children’s storybook,Parteais a two-room ode to all things British. Yes, staff will reluctantly make you a cup of mocha coffee (iced or hot), but most come for the tea and stay for the kitsch. Choose your own cup and saucer and select from a wall of teas ranging from English Breakfast to Caramel Popcorn. Then sit back and let it all steep amidst cuckoo clocks, vintage suitcases, and whimsical tea sets. Order tea by the pot to go along with proper scones with jam and clotted cream (in tropical HCMC!) or a high tea set. Try to nab a seat by the window, which overlooks pedestrian-only Nguyen Hue St – especially pretty when illuminated at night. Once you’ve quenched your thirst and had your fill of chintz, explore the magnificent art deco building that houses Partea – most of the nine floors have been converted to trendy cafes, cute boutiques and quirky businesses..
Jun 8, 2018 • 5 min read.
As Vietnam’s most populous city with many universities, businesses and modern conveniences, Ho Chi Minh City draws people from all over the country, many….
Mar 18, 2012 • 5 min read.
Lunch tastes best from a curb-side cart: grab your fork or simply use your fingers, and munch your way through the world’s best street eats. This tempting….
Mar 15, 2011 • 5 min read.
One of the best travel souvenirs you can bring home is the ability to cook some of the dishes you sampled on your journey. Cooking courses are becoming….
Mar 21, 2023 • 5 min read.
Let Elsewhere by Lonely Planet help you explore Vietnam through a culinary lens..
Jan 6, 2023 • 5 min read.
Exploring diverse landscapes, sampling sweet coffee and visiting tranquil countryside rice terraces are just some of the highlights of a trip to Vietnam..
Sep 13, 2022 • 5 min read.
From immense national parks to cool coastal cities, here are our picks for the best places to visit in Vietnam..
Dec 4, 2020 • 5 min read.
Here's our recipe for banh mi, Vietnam’s fusion sandwich that’s served in street food stalls from Ho Chi Minh City to Hanoi..
Feb 11, 2020 • 5 min read.
Strong and flavourful Vietnamese coffee makes converts as quickly as it raises pulses..
Aug 12, 2019 • 5 min read.
There's a lot to love about travelling in Vietnam, which stretches from the soaring mountains and fascinating ethnic groups of the north to the endless….
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
Apr 18, 2019•7min read.
Halong Bay.
Visiting Halong Bay: tips to plan your cruise.
Apr 18, 2019•7min read.
Dotted with jagged limestone pinnacles,Halong Bayis one ofVietnam’sbiggest attractions. The vast majority of its 10 million visitors a year arrive aboard day and overnight cruises..
The multitude of trips on offer can be overwhelming: here’s the skinny on Halong Bay to get you started..
Halong Bayretains much of the otherworldly magic conjured up by 1969 jungle-clad islands and islets rising from deep emerald waters. Getting there is increasingly straightforward, thanks to the 2018 building of an expressway connecting Halong City andHanoi, and the opening of Van Don International Airport (with flights toHo Chi Minh City, and international flights coming soon) a mere 50km from Halong Bay..
But the bay's popularity has taken its toll. Concerned about overcrowding, water pollution and litter, the Vietnamese government has imposed strict regulations..
Today, boats must follow one of five prescribed routes through the bay, meaning overnight cruises leaving roughly from the same place at the same time play follow-the-leader as they hit the major highlights of the bay almost in frustrating concert. In addition, swimming is only allowed at a few designated beaches, with drones surveilling the skies to make sure boat captains comply..
Especially with these rules in place, your choice of cruise can make or break your Halong Bay experience..
Want to spoil yourself? Halong Bay has some sumptuous cruise options that are basically luxury hotels on water. You’re paying for the experience of five-star amenities here – not for any particular divergence from the typical cruise itinerary – but if you want to live it up from a swanky sun-lounger while watching the sun set over a vista of craggy jungle-topped islands, you can’t really go wrong..
For a luxury cruise, bank on spending around US$300–350 for a cabin..
Pros:It’s a serious treat. While the cost may seem high, it typically includes higher quality meals and amenities on board, such as a spa or gym, as well as entry to Halong Bay..
Cons:Those who are after good value should probably look at midrange options. Overnight trips (marketed as two-day/one-night trips) usually involve 24 hours or less on the actual boat, which can rankle given what you pay for the experience..
Most Halong Bay visitors go for midrange or budget cruises, but there is a huge range when it comes to price and value for money. At one end of the scale are some ultra-budget boats where conditions are rustic at best; at the other are some excellent midrange options offering cosy hotel-style cabins, knowledgeable on-board tour guides and kayaking stops. If purse strings are tight, for facilities, comfort and safety considerations, it’s sometimes better to choose a day cruise with a midrange operator rather than a bargain-basement overnight trip..
Budget cruise prices start from US$60 per person for a day trip. Paying between US$110 and US$130 should get you a worthwhile overnight midrange cruise..
Pros:Competition is fierce, which means plenty of operators add freebies into the itinerary, such as kayaking and private minibus transfers from Hanoi..
Cons:You have to wade through a lot of options, which can be confusing. It’s worth doing your pre-trip research..
If you’re pressed for time, do as many locals do and see Halong Bay on a day cruise from Tuan Chau Marina inHalong City. Cruise boats can be rented by the hour (around US$30 per hour for a boat that accommodates up to 20 passengers) or you can join other passengers aboard a four- to six-hour cruise for about US$50 per person. Options vary greatly, so check whether the price includes lunch..
Pros:Day cruises are cheap and easily organised tours right on the spot in Halong City, plus there’s free entertainment on board provided by karaoke..
Cons:Can be crowded and noisy, with only time enough for a few stops. Did we mention the karaoke?.
Most decent midrange Halong Bay cruises will offer an hour or so of kayaking (some charging an extra fee). Paddling around the karsts allows you to experience the limestone towers from a completely different angle: up close and without the constant thrum of an engine in the background..
For more experienced kayakers, there are also kayak-only trips. These trips are run by a handful of operators based in nearbyLan Ha Bay(offCat Ba Island) rather than Halong Bay itself, though Lan Ha’s islet-scattered sea has as much wow factor as Halong Bay and is much less visited..
Full-day kayaking trips from Cat Ba Island cost between US$25 and US$30 per person..
Pros:In one of Southeast Asia’s most popular tourist destinations, a kayak trip is a way of escaping the crowds..
Cons:On a full kayaking tour, you’re only going to see a sliver of the area. To see more, it’s a better idea to take a cruise that includes a kayaking stop..
One of the most important reasons to steer away from the ultra-budget cruises is safety. After a boat sinking (and the loss of 12 lives) in 2011, new safety regulations were brought in for Halong Bay cruise boats, but scrimping on safety does still go on with some fly-by-night operators..
In particular, check that any kayaking stops are accompanied by a guide. Because of the variable and surprisingly strong currents close to the karst islands, a safety-conscious operator won’t allow kayakers to paddle off from the boat by themselves..
Most trips leave from Hanoi, but you can also base yourself in Halong City. When you're booking, bear these tips in mind:.
Some recommended operators:.
One of the best times to visit Halong Bay is November – there are blue skies aplenty, temperatures are moderate and there’s a good chance of calm seas. From May to September, tropical storms can whip up without much warning. This is also high season in Halong, particularly from June to mid-August when domestic tourism peaks..
February to April is often cool and drizzly, and the fog can make visibility low, though also adds an ethereal atmosphere. Year-round, cruises and tourist boats sometimes need to alter their itineraries, or trips can be cancelled with little warning depending on the weather and sea conditions. If you’re booking a cruise, check the fine print for the refund procedures..
Jun 9, 2022 • 7 min read.
If you’re looking for fun and unique things to do in Fayetteville, North Carolina, start with these 11 places..
Sep 26, 2021 • 7 min read.
Both stubbornly traditional and forward-looking, bustling Hanoi often confounds first-time visitors. Here are the top things to do while you're there..
Jan 8, 2021 • 7 min read.
The capture of a female turtle in Vietnam means that at least one male and one female are now known to exist..
May 1, 2020 • 7 min read.
For long-distance couples who met while traveling or live in different countries or on different continents, the COVID-19 pandemic adds a new layer of….
Oct 21, 2018 • 7 min read.
In a move that will delight animal-lovers, one national park in Vietnam has decided to ditch elephant rides in favour of the country’s first ethical….
Oct 11, 2017 • 7 min read.
A vital lifeline in war and peace, Vietnam’s 1000-mile long North-South Railway provides an all-in encounter with the country’s incredible beauty, people….
Oct 27, 2015 • 7 min read.
Bagging a good deal on the road can be almost as thrilling as the trip itself, no matter what your travel budget..
Oct 27, 2014 • 7 min read.
“No one is ever satisfied where he is,” says the railway switchman to the little prince in Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's celebrated 1943 novella. The famed….
Jun 27, 2012 • 7 min read.
Boats are often overlooked as a way to see the world; we invariably have limited time to get from A to Z so we fly, missing B to Y. In a lot of cases,….
For Explorers Everywhere.
Subscribe to Lonely Planet newsletters and promotions. Read ourPrivacy Policy..
©2023Lonely Planet, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission..
English.
